"title" "abstract"
"1" "effects of ecotourism on forest loss in the himalayan biodiversity hotspot based on counterfactual analyses" "ecotourism is developing rapidly in biodiversity hotspots worldwide, but there is limited and mixed empirical evidence that ecotourism achieves positive biodiversity outcomes. we assessed whether ecotourism influenced forest loss rates and trajectories from 2000 to 2017 in himalayan temperate forests. we compared forest loss in 15 ecotourism hubs with nonecotourism areas in 4 himalayan countries. we used matching statistics to control for local-level determinants of forest loss, for example, population density, market access, and topography. none of the ecotourism hubs was free of forest loss, and we found limited evidence that forest-loss trajectories in ecotourism hubs were different from those in nonecotourism areas. in nepal and bhutan, differences in forest loss rates between ecotourism hubs and matched nonecotourism areas did not differ significantly, and the magnitude of the estimated effect was small. in india, where overall forest loss rates were the lowest of any country in our analysis, forest loss rates were higher in ecotourism hubs than in matched nonecotourism areas. in contrast, in china, where overall forest loss rates were highest, forest loss rates were lower in ecotourism hubs than where there was no ecotourism. our results suggest that the success of ecotourism as a forest conservation strategy, as it is currently practiced in the himalaya, is context dependent. in a region with high deforestation pressures, ecotourism may be a relatively environmentally friendly form of economic development relative to other development strategies. however, ecotourism may stimulate forest loss in regions where deforestation rates are low. efectos del ecoturismo sobre la perdida de bosques en el punto caliente de biodiversidad en el himalaya con base en analisis contrafactuales el ecoturismo esta desarrollandose rapidamente en los puntos calientes de biodiversidad en todo el mundo, pero existe evidencia empirica mixta y limitada de los resultados positivos que se logran con el ecoturismo. valoramos si el ecoturismo influyo sobre las tasas de perdida forestal y sus trayectorias entre el 2000 y el 2017 en los bosques templados del himalaya. comparamos la perdida forestal en quince focos ecoturisticos con la perdida forestal en las areas sin ecoturismo de cuatro paises del himalaya. utilizamos estadistica correspondiente para controlar las determinantes a nivel local de la perdida del bosque, por ejemplo, la densidad poblacional, el acceso al mercado y la topografia. ninguno de los focos ecoturisticos estaba libre de perdida forestal, ademas de que encontramos evidencia limitada de que las trayectorias de la perdida forestal en los focos ecoturisticos eran diferentes a las trayectorias en las areas sin ecoturismo. en nepal y en butan, las diferencias en la perdida forestal entre los focos ecoturisticos y las areas sin ecoturismo correspondidas no difirieron significativamente y la magnitud del efecto estimado fue menor. en la india, donde las tasas generales de perdida forestal fueron las mas bajas de cualquier pais en nuestro analisis, las tasas de perdida forestal fueron mas altas en los focos ecoturisticos que en las areas sin ecoturismo correspondidas. como contraste, en china, donde las tasas generales de perdida forestal fueron mas altas, las tasas de perdida forestal fueron mas bajas en los focos ecoturisticos que en donde no existe el ecoturismo. nuestros resultados sugieren que el exito del ecoturismo como estrategia de conservacion del bosque, a como se practica actualmente en el himalaya, depende del contexto. en una region con presiones altas de deforestacion, el ecoturismo puede ser una forma de desarrollo economico relativamente amigable con el ambiente comparado con otras estrategias de desarrollo. sin embargo, el ecoturismo puede estimular la perdida forestal en regiones en las que las tasas de deforestacion son bajas. resumen ?? ????, ????????????????????, ??????????????????????????????????????????? 2000-2017 ???????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????? ?????????????????????, ?????, ??????????????????????????????, ????????, ????????????????????????????, ????????????????????????????, ????????????????????, ????????????, ?????????????????????????????, ????????????, ??????????????????????????????, ??????????????, ???????????????????????????????????????, ???????????????????????????, ???????????, ?????????????????: ???; ??: ???? article impact statement: whether ecotourism protects forests is context dependent, and an important factor is the deforestation pressure overall on the landscape."
"2" "POTENTIAL BENEFITS ASSOCIATED WITH IMPLEMENTATION OF THE NATIONAL BIODIVERSITY ECONOMY STRATEGY IN THE EASTERN CAPE PROVINCE, SOUTH AFRICA" "the biodiversity economy provides an important boost to socio-economic development in many developing countries. yet access and participation by previously disadvantaged individuals (pdis) has been limited, particularly in south africa. to address this social inequality, the biodiversity economy strategy (bes), implemented by the eastern cape parks and tourism agency, encouraged pdis to start game farms. we aimed to identify the critical factors influencing successful implementation of the bes in the eastern cape province in south africa, and its socio-economic and conservation benefits. critical factors that influence the success of the bes include poverty, limited land ownership and pdis' game farming skillsets which however, might be partly overcome by availability of bes's implementation funding. however, our results do not support socio-economic benefits in terms of job creation since the predicted jobs were fewer than actual jobs. all properties covered an area of 30 826ha, with high relative vegetation intactness (87.8 +/- 16.9%); and 84% (n=19) located within the eastern cape critical biodiversity areas comprising 21 distinct vegetation units, of which may confirm potential biodiversity conservation outcomes of bes. we provide first on-ground experience of implementing bes in south africa, and this study should guide future adjustments of bes and other implementing agencies beyond eastern cape province."
"3" "LINKING GLOBAL DRIVERS OF AGRICULTURAL TRADE TO ON-THE-GROUND IMPACTS ON BIODIVERSITY" "consumption of globally traded agricultural commodities like soy and palm oil is one of the primary causes of deforestation and biodiversity loss in some of the world's most species-rich ecosystems. however, the complexity of global supply chains has confounded efforts to reduce impacts. companies and governments with sustainability commitments struggle to understand their own sourcing patterns, while the activities of more unscrupulous actors are conveniently masked by the opacity of global trade. we combine state-of-the-art material flow, economic trade, and biodiversity impact models to produce an innovative approach for understanding the impacts of trade on biodiversity loss and the roles of remote markets and actors. we do this for the production of soy in the brazilian cerrado, home to more than 5% of the world ' s species. distinct sourcing patterns of consumer countries and trading companies result in substantially different impacts on endemic species. connections between individual buyers and specific hot spots explain the disproportionate impacts of some actors on endemic species and individual threatened species, such as the particular impact of european union consumers on the recent habitat losses for the iconic giant anteater (myrmecophaga tridactyla). in making these linkages explicit, our approach enables commodity buyers and investors to target their efforts much more closely to improve the sustainability of their supply chains in their sourcing regions while also transforming our ability to monitor the impact of such commitments over time."
"4" "effects of touristic development on mediterranean island wildlife" "context islands harbor unique and sensitive wildlife. little is currently known, however, on how touristic development affects island species. we analyzed how tourism-associated infrastructure impacts wildlife and habitat availability across a representative mediterranean island landscape (naxos, aegean sea, greece). objectives first, we aimed to quantify how human-built structures (buildings and roads) affect island bird and reptile populations. additionally, we investigated whether specific factors associated with this development such as cats, water, and food shape these impacts. second, we mapped and quantified how touristic-dominated development over 33 years has changed landscape habitat availability for wildlife. methods we used wildlife field surveys and analyses to elucidate the spatial responses of wildlife to development, and combined this with a compilation of image-derived spatial data of the recent infrastructure expansion. results native birds declined strongly close to buildings and roads, and were replaced there by non-native invasive species. reptiles also largely disappeared close to human development; appearing to be influenced by predation by pet cats. over the study period, 1982-2015, human-built structures nearly doubled. combining the increase in infrastructure numbers with each structure's estimated ecological footprint, 100 m, revealed that only 20.5% of the potential wildlife habitat remains unaffected by development in the study region. conclusions this study demonstrates the landscape-level effects of diffuse tourism-dominated development on island wildlife and suggests the existence of cooperative effects between touristic expansion and exotic species. given the pervasive presence of tourism in island habitats, it raises concerns about its effects on resident biodiversity."
"5" "Spatiotemporal effects of logging and fire on tall, wet temperate eucalypt forest birds" "Forests globally are subject to disturbances such as logging and fire that create complex temporal variation in spatial patterns of forest cover and stand age. However, investigations that quantify temporal changes in biodiversity in response to multiple forms of disturbance in space and time are relatively uncommon. Over a 10-yr period, we investigated the response of bird species to spatiotemporal changes in forest cover associated with logging and wildfire in the mountain ash (eucalyptus regnans) forests of southeastern australia. Specifically, we examined how bird occurrence changed with shifts in the proportion of area burned or logged in a 4.5 km radius surrounding our 88 long-term field survey sites, each measuring 1 ha in size. Overall species richness was greatest in older forest patches, but declined as the amount of fire around each site increased. At the individual species level, 31 of the 37 bird species we modeled exhibited a negative response to the amount of fire in the surrounding landscape, while one species responded positively to fire. Only nine species exhibited signs of recovery in the 6 yr of surveys following the fire. Five species were more likely to be detected as the proportion of logged forest surrounding a site increased, suggesting a possible \"concentration effect\" with displaced birds moving into unlogged areas following harvesting of adjacent areas. We also identified relationships between the coefficients of life history attributes and spatiotemporal changes in forest cover and stand age. Large-bodied birds and migratory species were associated with landscapes subject to large amounts of fire in 2009. There were associations between old growth stands and small-bodied bird species and species that were not insectivores. Our study shows that birds in mountain ash forests are strongly associated with old growth stands and exhibit complex, time-dependent, and species-specific responses to landscape disturbance. Despite logging and fire both being high-severity perturbations, no bird species exhibited similar responses to fire and logging in the landscape surrounding our sites. Thus, species responses to one kind of landscape-scale disturbance are not readily predictable based on an understanding of the responses to another kind of (albeit superficially similar) disturbance."
"6" "Implications of continuous amphibian diversity monitoring in daweishan national nature reserve in tropical se yunnan, china" "Tropical montane ecological systems with complex terrestrial conditions are often recognized as the major reason for biodiversity hotspots in the indo-china peninsula. Long-term spatial and temporal turnover data for amphibian species compositions within a region are essential for implementing effective conservation strategies and to design regional protected areas. The present study used a complete 5-year monitoring data series to compare the impacts of different human disturbances on amphibian diversity compositions of the daweishan mountains (dnnr) in tropical se yunnan, china. The major habitat disturbances occurring at lower elevations were tropical agricultural expansion with the continued disappearance of natural vegetation, and various new artificial habitats have emerged for colonization by amphibians, but tourism activities have arisen recently at mid-higher elevations accompanied by road construction, traffic, and artificial buildings. The data showed that, although the species assemblage of amphibians demonstrated a large difference between the lower and mid-higher elevations, the number of species and individuals were not significantly different regardless of whether the data collected were for the mature or larval stages. Environmental factors, including air and water temperatures, were the major factors regulating the diversity distribution of amphibian assemblages in the daweishan mountains. Different disturbances between lower and middle-higher elevations showed similar degree of impacts on the distributions of amphibian diversity. If specified for amphibian diversity conservation in the daweishan mountains in the present study, the importance of protecting existing tropical forest fragments in the lowlands and protection from additional human disturbances in the continuous evergreen broadleaf forest in the highlands are equally important. (C) 2019 the authors. Published by elsevier b.v. This is an open access article under the cc by-nc-nd license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/)."
"7" "Effects of invasion at two trophic levels on diet, body condition, and population size structure of hawaiian red shrimp" "We examined the degree to which invasion by non-native, nitrogen (n)-fixing riparian trees and poeciliid fish alters diet of a common grazer/detritivore in brackish ponds on the dry coast of hawai. I island. Because this shrimp, halocaridina rubra ('opae'ula), displays a preference for autotrophic components of epilithon, we hypothesized that tree canopy would reduce their body condition and abundance, but that this would be moderated by nutrient quality of leaf litter (high-quality, non-native, nitrogen-fixing tree vs. Low-quality, endemic non-nitrogen-fixing tree). We hypothesized that poeciliid invasion would reduce population size and body condition of h. Rubra by direct predation and by inducing reductions in feeding rate. Analysis of stable isotopes (delta d, delta c-13, and delta n-15) showed that direct consumption of leaf litter detritus supplemented h. Rubra diet in ponds with canopy cover. In addition, epilithon in ponds with canopy cover was isotopically more similar to leaf litter than epilithon in ponds without canopy cover, and our evidence suggests this may be due to contributions of allochthonous nutrient sources to epilithon assemblages. However, canopy cover, whether native or invasive, did not decrease epilithon growth rates and had little effect on shrimp body condition or population size. In contrast, poeciliid invasion reduced daylight grazing on the benthos, and caused a reduction in body condition among larger shrimp. Our results indicate that primary succession by invasive trees may shift food web linkages in these ponds from autotrophic to heterotrophic support, without negative impacts on native grazer/detritivore communities. We suggest that poeciliid invasions have sub-lethal effects on h. Rubra as well as their direct predation effects, with potential long-term implications for the ecosystem function of anchialine ponds and other coastal systems."
"8" "Worldwide distribution of non-native amazon parrots and temporal trends of their global trade" "Worldwide distribution of non-native amazon parrots and temporal trends of their global trade.-alien species are the second leading cause of the global biodiversity crisis, after habitat loss and fragmentation. Popular pet species, such as parrots and parakeets (aves, psittaciformes), are often introduced outside their native range as a result of the pet trade. On escape from captivity, some such species, such as the ring-necked parakeet and the monk parakeet, are highly invasive and successfully compete with native species. Populations of amazon parrots (amazona spp.) Can be found throughout the world, but data on their status, distribution and impact are incomplete. We gathered and reviewed the available information concerning global trade, distribution, abundance and ecology of amazon parrots outside their native range. Our review shows that at least nine species of amazon parrots have established populations outside their original range of occurrence throughout the world (in europe, south africa, the caribbean islands, hawaii, and north and south america). Their elusive behaviour and small population size suggest that the number of alien nuclei could be underestimated or at undetected. Despite international trade bans, the large trade of wild-caught amazon parrots in past decades appears to have contributed to the establishment of alien populations worldwide. Establishment success seems to differ geographically. While european populations are still small and growing slowly, usa populations are large and expanding geographically. This difference is not related to large propagule pressure ( trade) but possibly to a better niche match between native and introduced ranges. Amazona aestiva is the most frequently encountered amazona parrot, with at least eight alien populations reported to date. All these populations, with the exception of those in the usa where the climate is more suitable for their establishment, are composed of a low number of individuals even though they have been established for a long period of time. Further research is required as little information is available on the ecology and potential impact of these alien populations."
"9" "Consumption-Based Biodiversity Footprints - Do Different Indicators Yield Different Results?" "Land use related to human consumption patterns leads to significant loss of biodiversity. Here, the implications of using different indicators in the calculation of biodiversity footprints caused by land use were analyzed. Footprints refer to the impacts related to the net consumption in a region. We calculated biodiversity footprints for 140 regions in the world with an environmentally-extended multi-regional input-output (eemrio) model. The eemrio links economic activities from the global trade analysis project (gtap) database with land use and four indicators of biodiversity loss. We included three alpha diversity indicators (loss of mean species abundance, relative abundance and relative species richness) and one indicator of gamma diversity (vulnerability-weighted relative species richness loss). While the three alpha diversity indicators reflect local diversity within a site, the gamma diversity indicator captures global diversity by weighting regional species richness with species' extinction vulnerability in a region. We found that the three alpha diversity footprints show close alignment (r(s) > 0.93), while there was limited convergence between alpha and gamma diversity footprints (r(s) < 0.22). The alpha diversity indicators identified a diverse set of regions with high per capita consumption-based biodiversity footprints across the globe, while the gamma diversity indicator emphasized human consumption patterns threatening particularly tropical biodiversity. Although all footprints are positively related to rising household expenditure, this relationship was weaker and highly uncertain for the gamma diversity footprints. The alpha-based footprints also showed a negative relationship with population density, while the gamma-based footprint was not related to population density. Our results highlight the relevance of including both alpha and gamma diversity indicators in land-based biodiversity footprint calculations."
"10" "effects of the introduction of an omnivorous fish on the biodiversity and functioning of an upland amazonian lake" "the introduction of nonnative species is one of the main threats to freshwater ecosystems. although omnivory and intraguild predation are common in those systems, little is known about the effects of introduced omnivorous fish on pelagic and littoral communities. this study tested predictions of food-web theory regarding the effects of omnivorous fish introduction on previously fishless lakes in the amazonian uplands of serra dos carajas, para, brazil. the trophic structure of two similar lakes, one with and the other without the introduced omnivorous fish astyanax bimaculatus, was compared using a data series of biotic variables collected from both lakes twice a year from 2010 to 2013. zooplankton was more abundant in the lake with fish, and the zooplankton composition differed between lakes. phytoplankton richness and chlorophyll-a were higher in the lake with the introduced fish than in the fishless lake regardless of phosphorus limitation. for the benthic macroinvertebrate communities, species richness and biomass were higher in the fishless lake. our results also indicate that a. bimaculatus has the potential to link pelagic and littoral habitats through nutrient cycling. the differences observed between the studied lakes are consistent with predictions from food-web theory regarding the effects of multichain omnivorous fish on trophic dynamics. despite limitations regarding replication at the ecosystem level, it is possible to infer from our findings that the introduction of an omnivorous fish might have changed lake overall functioning."
"11" "Impact of ecotourism on the fish fauna of bonito region (mato grosso do sul state, brazil): ecological, behavioural and physiological measures" "Bonito, in mato grosso do sul state, is an important destination for ecotourism in brazil and the main challenge of sustainable ecotourism here has been to accommodate and adjust the increase of tourism without compromising the ecological integrity of the local ecosystems. In this study we aimed to assess the environmental impact of ecotourism on the fish fauna of sucuri river in bonito by integrating ecological, behaviour and physiological criteria and using the fish species crenicichla lepidota and moenkhausia bonita as indicators. Two distinct sites were defined to collect data: (1) affected daily by ecotourism (tourism) and (2) undisturbed (no tourism). The \"stationary point count\" method was performed to assess variations in ecological parameters and \"ad libitum\" and focal animal methods were used to collect behaviour data. The cortisol response of m. Bonita to a stress protocol was measured from holding-water. Results showed a significantly increase in species richness, density and diversity at the tourism site. Nevertheless, behaviour patterns indicated a higher stress at the tourism site for both species as well higher cortisol levels for m. Bonita. In opposition to the ecological measures, the behaviour and physiological ones may be interpreted as an early sign of negative impact caused by ecotourism, prior to changes at community level."
"12" "Human trampling effects on mediterranean coastal dune plants" "Coastal habitats are particularly vulnerable to recreational impacts because these environments are highly dynamic and continually change in response to biotic and abiotic factors. Sand dune communities are worldwide characterized by high levels of biodiversity, but are often affected by human-induced impacts as those caused by tourist trampling. To understand the effects of human frequentation, trampling, and other human-induced impacts, fencing experiments have been traditionally carried out on coastal dunes. Since in touristic areas dune systems are subjected to different intensities of human frequentations rather than to opening or fencing, in this study we explore the effects of accessibility on vascular plants cover. This study tests the hypothesis that human frequentation on beaches affects spatio-temporal variability of vascular plant abundance on dunes by comparing the plant assemblages of high and low accessible sites in north-east sardinia (italy). Our results show that accessibility plays a crucial role in conditioning the percentage of vegetation cover in mediterranean dunes. In fact, not only we found a perennial vegetation cover that was significantly higher in the sites with low accessibility (and consequently low frequentation), but we also showed that at the sites with high accessibility there were significant differences in vegetation cover between times of sampling (cover was higher before than after summer): on the contrary, differences in perennial vegetation cover among times were not significant at the low frequentation sites. After summer, the difference among low and high frequentation sites in species composition and cover was >90%. Multivariate analysis identified those species that play a pivotal role in differentiating the low and the high frequentation sites. Among them, crucianella maritima and sporobolus virginicus can be considered as differential species. Overall, our data show vegetation and plant species responses to human-induced impacts, and are therefore important to support conservation actions in mediterranean coastal areas interested by mass tourism."
"13" "REVIEW OF ANTHROPOGENIC THREATS AND BIODIVERSITY ASSESSMENT OF AN ETHIOPIAN SODA LAKE, LAKE ABIJATA" "the intention of this review is to assess the impact of anthropogenic activities on the biodiversity of lake abijata. the lake was established as a national park, together with lakes shalla and chitu, to conserve water birds. it has high ph and electrical conductivity and is hypersaline. it presents an inhospitable limnochemical environment that limits biodiversity, although there are organisms adapted to these hostile conditions. the biodiversity of the lake is threatened by anthropogenic activities. deforestation, expansion of agriculture, livestock, soda ash extraction and upstream irrigation led to a drop in water level and surface area, a change in physico-chemical and biological conditions, and a general deterioration in ecosystem condition. the phytoplankton community structure has switched from populations of arthrospira fusiformis to non-arthrospira fusiformis, zooplankton communities have moved towards small-bodied rotifers, such as brachionus, filinia and lecane spp., the fishery has totally collapsed and birds, such as lesser flamingoes (phoeniconaias minor geoffroy) and great white pelicans (pelecanus onocrotalus), have migrated to nearby lakes. these ecological changes over the past years point to the need for a new conservation and management plan to restore the ecosystem's health. a few recommendations are given for lake management as mechanisms to protect the ecosystem."
"14" "Evaluating the effects of common-pool resource institutions and market forces on species richness and forest cover in ecuadorian indigenous kichwa communities" "We compare conservation outcomes between a protected area (pa) and four indigenous common-property regimes (cprs) under differing degrees of market integration in the ecuadorian amazon. We first assess how market forces and common-pool resource institutions governing processes of forest conversion affect biodiversity and forest cover, and whether institutions mitigate the effect of market forces. We then analyze how biodiversity and forest cover differ between a pa, and communities with different market access. Finally, we link biodiversity and forest cover changes within communities to differences in land-use practices. While we show similar levels of forest cover and biodiversity between the pa and large cprs with little access to local markets, institutions appear not to attenuate market effects on conservation outcomes in our case studies. We discuss results within a common-property theory context and highlight the importance of disentangling how market integration, common-pool resource institutions, and resource health interact over time."
"15" "Movement ecology of northern pacific rattlesnakes (crotalus o. Oreganus) in response to disturbance" "Anthropogenic disturbances often present novel habitat features to which the members of an existing population must adapt. We examined the effects of disturbance and habitat fragmentation on the movements of northern pacific rattlesnakes (crotalus o. Oreganus) from 2006 through 2012 in southern british columbia, canada. We radio-tracked 44 adult male rattlesnakes through shrub-steppe, grassland, and dry forest habitats that varied from highly disturbed and fragmented to near pristine with little human interaction. Sources of disturbance were primarily associated with tourism (gol course, campground, hiking trails, roads, parking lots, vineyards, condominium complex). After accounting for interyear variation and daily temperature, rattlesnakes in undisturbed areas had larger home ranges (100% minimal convex polygon) an longer home-range lengths compared to individuals frequenting minimally to highly disturbed areas. Contrary to our predictions, snakes in highly disturbed sites did not move greater total distances, display elevated movement frequencies, higher movement rates, and/or more convoluted movement patterns."
"16" "Long-term temporal and spatial patterns in bioeroding sponge distribution at the abrolhos bank, brazil, southwestern atlantic" "Bioeroding sponges belong to the most dominant bioeroders, significantly contributing to the erosion of coral reefs. Some species are tolerant or even benefit from environmental conditions such as ocean warming, acidification, and eutrophication. In consequence, increases in sponge bioerosion have been observed on some coral reefs over the last decades. The abrolhos bank is the largest coral reef system in the south atlantic. It has been affected by sedimentation, eutrophication, overfishing, and climate change, mainly affecting coastal reefs, and at lesser intensity outer ones as well. This study aimed to describe spatial and temporal patterns in bioeroding sponge distribution in carbonate substrates in the abrolhos bank. Photo-quadrats were used to compare bioeroding sponge abundance between two shallow reefs: a coastal, pedra de leste (pl), and an outer reef, parcel dos abrolhos (pab). Each individual was delimitated over the substrate by determining the sponge surface through a line connecting the outermost papillae. The study was conducted over 6 years in 2008-2009 and 2013-2016. Four species of bioeroding sponges were identified: cliona carteri ridley, 1881, c. Delitrix pang, 1973, c. Cf. Schmidtii ridley, 1881, and siphonodictyon coralliphagum rutzler, 1971. The distribution and abundance of species varied between the inner and outer reefs and across the years, and displayed certain selectivity for the calcareous substrates recorded. Crustose coralline algae (cca) were the main substrate excavated by the most abundant bioeroding species, c. Carteri, and represented 70% of the substrate types occupied by this sponge (cca, coral overgrown by cca and plain coral). The highest abundance of bioeroding sponges observed in photo-quadrats was 21.3 individuals/m(2) at the outer reefs (pab) in 2014. The abundances or areal extents of bioeroding sponges were up to 10 times greater on the outer reefs than on the coastal ones, where sedimentation is higher and more strongly influenced by siliciclastic material. Moreover, a higher herbivorous fish biomass has been reported on outer reefs which could also influence the higher abundance of bioeroding sponges in outer reefs. During the study period of 6 years, an increase in bioeroding sponge abundance was observed at the outer reefs (pab), with the sea surface temperature increase. As cca have an important role in reefal cementation and carbonate production in the abrolhos reefs, a bioerosion impact might be expected, in particular, on the outer reefs."
"17" "A continental scale analysis of threats to orchids" "Thousands of plants are at risk of extinction globally due to human activities, including many species of orchids. In australia alone there are 184 orchids identified as threatened by the australian government, but what threatens them and where are they threatened? Using data derived from listing documents for these orchids, threats were allocated to 28 categories. Then, the distributions of the orchids and hence likely geographic patterns of threats were mapped using 14,651 location records from the atlas of living australia. The most common threats were changes in fire regimes (74% of threatened australian orchids), invasive species (65%), habitat modification (64%), grazing (63%), tourism and recreation (47%) and illegal collection (46%), which often co-occurred as threat syndromes. Most threatened orchids are terrestrial (165 species), and many occur in temperate forests (96) and temperate shrubland (36). When generalised linear models were used to assess geographic patterns in threats, bioregions with less cover of native vegetation were more likely to have orchids threatened by habitat modification, grazing or weeds (p < 0.05). Bioregions with higher protected area coverage were more likely to contain orchids threatened by tourism and recreation, but less likely to have orchids threatened by habitat modification (p < 0.05). Understanding drivers of threats and their distribution is crucial for successful management as they highlight key areas for conservation. The results also highlight the need for updating orchid listings nationally and internationally to better reflect the diversity of orchids threatened and threats to them, including the increasing impact of climate change."
"18" "SENSITIVITY OF MACROINVERTEBRATES TO HUMAN IMPACTS ON SANDY BEACHES: A CASE STUDY WITH TIGER BEETLES (INSECTA, CICINDELIDAE)" "as with most sandy beach invertebrates, tiger beetles respond negatively to anthropogenic disturbances. however, impact assessments using these insects have never been conducted on tropical sandy beaches. the aim of the present study was to compare the sensitivity of tiger beetles to human impacts with other macroinvertebrates both locally and globally based on field collections and an extensive literature review. at the local scale, the abundance of cylindera nivea (kirby, 1818) was compared in the intertidal zone of six sandy beaches with distinct levels of human disturbances at two periods, in the low and high tourism seasons. the abundance of c. nivea was negatively (p < 0.001) related to the urbanization level, and no individuals were found on the high-impacted beaches even outside of the tourist season. globally, tiger beetle species are usually absent from impacted areas, showing a higher sensitivity score (sh = 3.7) to human impacts compared to other beach macroinvertebrates (sh <= 3.2). thus, we suggest using tiger beetles as indicator species for beach monitoring, relative to their abundance in non-impacted areas."
"19" "Responses of riparian trees and shrubs to flow regulation along a boreal stream in northern sweden" "P>1. Flow dynamics is a major determinant of riparian plant communities. Therefore, flow regulation may heavily affect riparian ecosystems. Despite the large number of dams worldwide, little specific information is available on the longitudinal impacts of dams on vegetation, for example how far downstream and at what degree of regulation a dam on a river can influence riparian woodlands. 2. We quantified the long-term responses of riparian trees and shrubs to flow regulation by identifying their lateral distribution and habitat conditions along a boreal river in northern sweden that has been regulated by a single dam since 1948. The regulation has reduced annual flow fluctuations, this effect being largest at the dam, downstream from which it progressively decreases following the entrance of free-flowing tributaries. 3. We related changes in the distribution patterns, composition, abundance and richness of tree and shrub species to the degree of regulation along the river downstream from the dam. Regulation has triggered establishment of trees and shrubs closer to the channel, making it possible to measure ecological impacts of flow regulation as differences in vegetation attributes relative to the positions of tree and shrub communities established before and after regulation. 4. Trees and shrubs had migrated towards the mid-channel along the entire study reach, but the changes were largest immediately downstream of the dam. Shrubs were most impacted by flow regulation in terms of lateral movement, but the effect on trees extended furthest downstream. 5. The species composition of trees progressively returned to its pre-regulation state with distance downstream, but entrance of free-flowing tributaries and variation in channel morphology and substratum caused local deviations. Species richness after regulation increased for trees but decreased for shrubs. The changes in species composition and richness of trees and shrubs showed no clear downstream patterns, suggesting that other factors than the degree of regulation were more important in governing life form."
"20" "Landbird richness and abundance in three coastal habitats near resorts in cayo coco, cuba" "We studied habitat use of disturbed coastal forest by communities of north american migrant and cuban resident land birds on cayo coco, cuba. This region is subject to a growing resort industry, yet the ecological effects of this disturbance remain largely unknown. Using mist-nets, we sampled birds during two early winters and one late winter. We sampled at sites adjacent to coastal resorts, and at a distance of up to 5.7 km from resorts, in three habitat types (mixed mangrove, semi-deciduous, and coastal scrub forests). We tested for differences in abundance and richness at sites near and far from resorts and among the three habitat types. We also assessed whether bird distribution was associated with fruit abundance and/or vegetation characteristics. Across seasons, migrants were consistently more abundant at sites near resorts than at sites more distant, whereas richness of cuban residents was consistently higher at sites near resorts than at those farther away. Neither abundance nor richness of the resident guild varied significantly by habitat. The distributions of neither migrants nor residents were correlated with fruit abundance. High foliage density associated with greater edge habitat provided the strongest explanation for high estimates of abundance and richness of migrants and residents near resorts. Our results suggest that moderately disturbed forests near resorts can support abundant and rich communities of both migrants and residents."
"21" "Tropical forest conversion to rubber plantation affects soil micro- & mesofaunal community & diversity" "Tropical rainforests play important roles in carbon sequestration and are hot spots for biodiversity. Tropical forests are being replaced by rubber (hevea brasiliensis) plantations, causing widespread concern of a crash in biodiversity. Such changes in aboveground vegetation might have stronger impacts on belowground biodiversity. We studied tropical rainforest fragments and derived rubber plantations at a network of sites in xishuangbanna, china, hypothesizing a major decrease in diversity with conversion to plantations. We used metabarcoding of the 18s rrna gene and recovered 2313 otus, with a total of 449 otus shared between the two land-use types. The most abundant phyla detected were annelida (66.4% reads) followed by arthropods (15.5% reads) and nematodes (8.9% reads). Of these, only annelids were significantly more abundant in rubber plantation. Taken together, alpha- and beta-diversity were significantly higher in forest than rubber plantation. Soil ph and spatial distance explained a significant portion of the variability in phylogenetic community structure for both land-use types. Community assembly was primarily influenced by stochastic processes. Overall it appears that forest replacement by rubber plantation results in an overall loss and extensive replacement of soil micro- and mesofaunal biodiversity, which should be regarded as an additional aspect of the impact of forest conversion."
"22" "Urban stormwater run-off promotes compression of saltmarshes by freshwater plants and mangrove forests" "Subtropical and temperate coastal saltmarsh of australia is listed as an endangered ecological community under the commonwealth environment protection and biodiversity conservation act (epbc act). Saltmarshes are under threat from sea level rise, landward migration of mangroves, and in urban regions from habitat loss, input of litter, nutrients, and other contaminants. In urbanised catchments, saltmarsh areas receive nutrient-enriched and pollutant-contaminated run-off, such as heavy metals, through the stormwater system. This study aimed to investigate the impact of urban stormwater on saltmarsh and mangrove species composition and distribution. To test the effect of stormwater run-off in urbanised catchments on saltmarsh communities, we analysed the soil for pollutant elements, salinity and nutrient concentration and recorded vegetation composition at eight sites in the sydney region, australia. We found that elevated total nitrogen (> 0.4 wt%) and reduced salinity of the soil downslope of stormwater outlets facilitates establishment of exotic plants and might promote migration of mangroves into saltmarshes, resulting in a squeezing effect on the distribution of saltmarsh vegetation. Saltmarsh cover was significantly lower below stormwater outlets and exotic plant cover increased significantly with sediment calcium concentrations above 8840 mg/kg, which are associated with stormwater runoff. However, this effect was found to be strongest in highly industrialised areas compared to residential areas. Understanding the impact of pollutants on coastal wetlands will improve management strategies for the conservation of this important endangered ecological community. (C) 2018 elsevier b.v. All rights reserved."
"23" "Effects of intensive rice production practices on avian biodiversity in southeast asian managed wetlands" "Rice fields are common throughout the agricultural landscape of southeast asia and sustain various bird species. These birds can provide ecosystem services, such as pest control, that improve agricultural yields whilst minimising the use of agrochemicals. This study quantified avian biodiversity in rice production landscapes during three farming stages in peninsular malaysia. In malaysia, rice fields can be an important habitat for migrating birds due to malaysia's position on the east-asian-australasian flyway. We determined bird abundance, species richness, and composition in rice field landscapes and compared these during different stages of rice growing. Wetland and terrestrial birds were counted in rice fields using the point-count method. Sixty sampling points were randomly established in three locations, from which 3447 individual birds of 46 species and 26 families were recorded. There was a significant difference in total bird abundance and species richness between the three different stages of rice growing. The growing stage supported greater bird abundance and species richness compared to the pre-harvest and post-harvest stages. Rice-growing provides temporary habitats to different bird species in this managed aquatic landscape. This implies the presence of abundant food, such as small fish and amphibians. The evidence from this study suggests that biodiversity-friendly agricultural practices should be implemented to improve habitat quality for birds in rice production landscapes."
"24" "BIOGEOGRAPHY OF EXTINCTION: THE DEMISE OF INSULAR MAMMALS FROM THE LATE PLEISTOCENE TILL TODAY" "EXTINCTION, SPECIATION AND IMMIGRATION ARE THE MAIN FACTORS SHAPING PATTERNS OF BIODIVERSITY ON ISLANDS. IN PARTICULAR, THE IMPACT OF THE LATE PLEISTOCENE-HOLOCENE EXTINCTION WAVE HAD A STRONG IMPACT ON THE MEGAFAUNA. HERE WE INVESTIGATE THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN EXTINCTIONS OF INSULAR ENDEMIC MAMMAL SPECIES AND THEIR BODY MASS, THE SIZE OF THE ISLAND AND THE FIRST HUMAN ARRIVAL TO THE ARCHIPELAGO. OUR DATA ON ISLANDS WORLDWIDE SHOW THAT MEGAFAUNA WAS HIT HARD INDEED. ALL ISLANDS LOST THEIR HEAVIEST MAMMAL SPECIES, WHEREAS MAXIMUM SURVIVING MAMMALIAN BODY SIZE DIFFERS PER ARCHIPELAGO, RANGING FROM HEAVIER THAN 100 KG (PHILIPPINES) TO BELOW 100 G (CANARIES) AND NO SURVIVING NATIVE MAMMALS ON THE GALAPAGOS. ALTHOUGH THE NUMBER OF EXTINCTIONS IS HIGHEST ON LARGER ISLANDS, IN LINE WITH PREDICTIONS FOLLOWING FROM THE SPECIES-AREA RELATIONSHIP, THE PERCENTAGE IN RELATION TO TOTAL NUMBER OF ENDEMIC SPECIES IS THE LOWEST. MAJOR PART (ALMOST 80%) OF EXTINCTIONS OF INSULAR ENDEMICS TOOK PLACE AFTER THE FIRST HUMAN ARRIVAL, WITH THE HIGHEST PERCENTAGES DURING THE LATE PLEISTOCENE (34.5%) AND THE MODERN ERA (31%). THIS INDICATES AN INCREASED RATE OF EXTINCTIONS IN THE MODERN ERA, CONSIDERING THE SUBSTANTIALLY LONGER TIME SPAN OF THE FORMER PERIOD. INCREASED GLOBALISATION WITH INTRODUCTIONS OF ALIEN SPECIES IN COMBINATION WITH SUBSTANTIAL ANTHROPOGENIC HABITAT ALTERATION LIKELY UNDERLIES THIS PATTERN. WHETHER THESE EXTINCTION WAVES FOLLOW A FAST OR SLOW SCENARIO (\"BLITZKRIEG\" VERSUS \"SITZKRIEG\") REMAINS UNCLEAR, BUT THE GRADUAL INCREASE IN EXTINCTIONS THROUGH THE HOLOCENE, WITH A PEAK (31%) IN THE LAST 500 YEARS, IS SUGGESTIVE OF A SLOW SCENARIO."
"25" "An upside to globalization: international outmigration drives reforestation in nepal" "Halting and reversing global forest loss is a key priority for sustainable development pathways. Multiple countries in the global south have recently transitioned from net forest loss to net forest gain. Understanding and explaining reforestation patterns is necessary to better understand land cover dynamics and create more effective sustainability policies. We show that international migration a key feature of globalization in the 21st century spurs a transition to greater forest cover in nepal. Although some aspects of globalization - agricultural commodity production and trade in particular - have been identified as contributing to deforestation, the effects of international migration are less well understood. Using data from nepal's national census (1.36 million households) and from high-resolution forest cover change, we find that international outmigration is associated with substantial increases in local forest cover, even after controlling for multiple confounding factors. We find that areas with international outmigration levels above the median in 2001 were 44% more likely to experience net reforestation between 2000-2012. This effect of outmigration is mediated by changes in population density and in household agricultural activity. Effects of outmigration are higher in more agriculturally suitable areas, suggesting that migration-driven forest transitions are influenced by agricultural production systems. We provide new empirical evidence of forest transition driven by international migration and a generalizable analytical approach to the study of forest transitions using secondary global and national datasets. Our results suggest that actions to reach global sustainability, biodiversity targets, and reduced emissions can be better designed and targeted by taking into account the effects of international migration on natural resources and ecosystems."
"26" "Tourism in protected areas: disentangling road and traffic effects on intra-guild scavenging processes" "The expansion of road networks and the increase in traffic have emerged in recent years as key threats to the conservation of biodiversity. This is particularly concerning in many protected areas because the increase of recreational activities requiring the use of vehicles. Effects of roads and traffic within guild scenarios and ecological processes remain however poorly known. Here we examined how road proximity and traffic intensity influence patterns of resource use in an old-world avian scavenger guild living in a protected natural park in northern spain. We experimentally placed 130 carcasses at different distances from a scenic road in the centre of the park. Vehicleswere recorded bymeans of traffic counterswhich revealed that maximumnumbers were reached during weekends and holidays and during themiddle hours of the day. Avian scavenger attendance at carcasses was recorded by means of camera-traps. Obligated scavengers, eurasian griffon (gyps fulvus) and egyptian vultures (neophron percnopterus) were frequently observed (59.4% and 37.7% of the consumed carcasses) together with five other facultative scavenger species. We found that the richness (number of species) and the probability of consumption of the resource were reduced the smaller the distance to the road and in dayswith higher traffic intensity. The same factors affected the probability of presence of all the scavenger species. Moreover, some of them, notably griffon vultures, showed hourly patterns of carcass attendance suggesting avoidance of maximum traffic levels. Our results highlight that roads and traffic would trigger consequences on the structure and functioning of scavenger food webs, which may be particularly concerning in protected areas with remarkable levels of biodiversity. Future regulations at protected areas should couple both traffic and tourist affluencewithwildlife conservation. In this way important ecological processes would be preserved while maintaining a good dissemination of natural values. (C) 2018 elsevier b.v. All rights reserved."
"27" "Effect of unmanaged harvests for the aquarium trade on the population status and dynamics of redline torpedo barb: a threatened aquatic flagship" "1. The freshwater aquarium trade provides economic and livelihood opportunities to the rural poor, but has been implicated in biodiversity loss through population declines and local extirpation of high-value endemic species. Previous observations on population declines are largely based on anecdotal data, however, and there are no studies on the population dynamics or stock assessment of freshwater fish species collected for the aquarium pet trade. 2. To understand how wild collection of endemic and threatened species for the aquarium trade could affect their populations, the sustainability of collecting the endangered redline torpedo barb (sahyadria denisonii), and its evolutionarily distinct lineages (henceforth rltbs), from the western ghats region (part of the western ghats-sri lanka biodiversity hot spot) for the aquarium trade was studied to provide baseline data to inform conservation action. 3. Local populations of rltbs at the five commercial collection sites showed high mortality rates, and fish were exploited before they attained sexual maturity. The unmanaged fishery has led to unsustainable levels of exploitation, and populations of rltbs at three sites are vulnerable to an impending collapse. 4. Endemic and threatened freshwater fish species used in the aquarium pet trade are exposed to local extirpations and global extinctions unless management plans and legislative controls are implemented and strictly enforced. Management plans and conservation actions to help guide the responsible fisheries of rltbs are suggested, and the wider implications of unmanaged exploitation of endemic aquarium fisheries are discussed."
"28" "Large Mammal Diversity Matters For Wildlife Tourism In Southern African Protected Areas: Insights For Management" "Relationships between biodiversity and cultural ecosystem services have been little studied compared to other ecosystem services, although fundamental for environmental management. Recreational ecosystem services like wildlife tourism are specific cultural ecosystem services that often involve relationships between the supply of opportunities to interact with biodiversity and the demand of wildlife tourists. Here, we first investigated whether different biodiversity measures based on three metrics applied to four components of large mammal diversity influenced the distribution of visitors within four protected areas (pas) in southern africa. Second, we explored whether these effects were context-specific across the four pas. We counted large mammals and visitor numbers along 196 road transects to test these relationships. All species-mammal diversity metrics related positively to visitor numbers. Subsets of mammal diversity were also positively associated with the distribution of visitors in all pas. Relationships between supply and demand for the recreational service of wildlife tourism were mainly context-specific: the relationships between biodiversity measures and visitor numbers differed among pas. Our results could help managers to optimize the use of recreational services within pas, by diversifying viewing opportunities while reducing disturbance to wildlife. The supply-demand approach presented here offers promising avenues for further assessments of recreational ecosystem services. (C) 2017 elsevier b.v. All rights reserved."
"29" "SPATIAL AND TEMPORAL CHANGES IN BIODIVERSITY AND ECOSYSTEM SERVICES IN THE SAN ANTONIO RIVER BASIN, TEXAS, FROM 1984 TO 2010" "A FUNDAMENTAL PREMISE OF THE MILLENNIUM ECOSYSTEM ASSESSMENT IS THAT BIODIVERSITY AND ECOSYSTEM SERVICES ARE KEY DETERMINANTS OF LONG-TERM SUSTAINABILITY OF SOCIAL-ECOLOGICAL SYSTEMS. WITH A CONTINUING DECLINE IN LOCAL AND GLOBAL BIODIVERSITY AND ECOSYSTEM SERVICES, IT IS CRUCIAL TO UNDERSTAND HOW BIODIVERSITY AND VARIOUS ECOSYSTEM SERVICES INTERACT AND HOW LAND CHANGE MAY MODIFY THESE INTERACTIONS OVER TIME. HOWEVER, FEW STUDIES HAVE BEEN CONDUCTED TO QUANTIFY THESE RELATIONSHIPS. IN THIS STUDY, WE PRESENT THE FIRST EMPIRICAL COMPARATIVE RESULTS TO ANALYZE HOW SPATIAL ASSOCIATIONS BETWEEN BIODIVERSITY AND ECOSYSTEM SERVICES (BES) CHANGED AT MULTIPLE SCALES BETWEEN 1984 AND 2010 IN THE RAPIDLY URBANIZING SAN ANTONIO RIVER BASIN (SARB), TEXAS, USA. WE FOUND STATISTICALLY SIGNIFICANT POSITIVE SPATIAL ASSOCIATIONS AMONG BIODIVERSITY, CARBON STORAGE, AND SEDIMENT RETENTION BOTH IN THE ENTIRE SARB AND THE URBAN WATERSHEDS IN BEXAR COUNTY. OVERALL, BIODIVERSITY AND CARBON STORAGE DECLINED ACROSS THE SARB, WHILE SEDIMENT RETENTION REMAINED RELATIVELY STABLE. MOREOVER, THE RATES OF BIODIVERSITY LOSS AND CARBON STORAGE DEGRADATION WERE NEGATIVELY RELATED TO THE URBAN EXPANSION AND HAVE ACCELERATED SINCE THE INCEPTION OF THE NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (NAFTA) IN 1994. DURING THE PRE- AND POST-NAFTA PERIODS (1984-1995 AND 1995-2010, RESPECTIVELY) THE RATES OF BIODIVERSITY LOSS INCREASED FROM 0.7% TO 0.9%, AND THE RATES OF CARBON-STORAGE LOSS INCREASED FROM 0.1% TO 1.4% PER ANNUM IN THE URBAN WATERSHEDS. OUR HOTSPOT ANALYSES INDICATE THAT THE UPSTREAM WATERSHEDS IN THE BASIN, WHICH SUPPLY WATER TO THE CRITICALLY IMPORTANT EDWARDS AQUIFER, SHOULD BE TARGETED FOR PRIORITY CONSERVATION TO MITIGATE THE ADVERSE IMPACTS OF LAND CHANGE ON BES. OUR RESULTS SUGGEST THE STRONG NEED FOR GREEN INFRASTRUCTURE POLICIES THAT INTEGRATE BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION AND SUSTAINABLE USE OF MULTIPLE ECOSYSTEM SERVICES TO ADDRESS THE ENVIRONMENTALLY DELETERIOUS IMPACTS OF THE EXTENSIVE LAND CHANGE UNDER THE NAFTA AND TO ENSURE THE LONG-TERM SOCIAL-ECOLOGICAL SUSTAINABILITY OF THE RAPIDLY URBANIZING SARB. (C) 2017 ELSEVIER B.V. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED."
"30" "CLIMATE CHANGE, TOURISM AND HISTORICAL GRAZING INFLUENCE THE DISTRIBUTION OF CAREX LACHENALII SCHKUHR - A RARE ARCTIC-ALPINE SPECIES IN THE TATRA MTS" "mountain vegetation is highly specialized to harsh climatic conditions and therefore is sensitive to any change in environment. the rarest and most vulnerable plants occurring in alpine regions are expected to respond rapidly to environmental changes. an example of such a species is carex lachenalii subsp. lachenalii schkuhr, which occurs in poland on only a few isolated sites in the tatra mts. the aim of this study was to assess changes in distribution of c. lachenalii in the tatra mts over the past 50-150 years and the effects of climate change, tourism and historical grazing on the ecological niche of c. lachenalii. we focused on changes in the importance of functional diversity components in shaping plant species composition. over the past 50-150 years, the elevation of the average distribution of c. lachenalii shifted about 178 m upward alongside a significant prolongation of the vegetative season by approximately 20 days in the last 50-60 years. species composition of plots without c. lachenalii was characterized by competition between plants, whereas on plots with c. lachenalii habitat filtering was the most important component. our results suggest that climate change was the main factor driving upward shift of c. lachenalii. moderate trampling enhanced horizontal spread of this plant, whereas cessation of grazing grazing caused decline of c. lachenalii. the three environmental factors studied that determined shifts in distribution of c. lachenalii may also contribute to changes in distribution of other rare mountain plant species causing changes in ecosystem functioning. (c) 2017 elsevier b.v. all rights reserved."
"31" "disentangling the response of lake littoral invertebrate assemblages to multiple pressures" "lakes are affected by a number of anthropogenic pressures, often resulting in biodiversity loss and impairment of ecosystem services. here we analysed responses of littoral invertebrate assemblages in 589 temperate lakes to five anthropogenic pressures and combined pressure load. over half of the lakes (n = 302) were deemed to be affected by one or more pressures. the most pervasive pressures were forestry (73% of the impacted lakes), agriculture (21%) and acidification (11%). individually, agriculture and ph explained > 20% of the among-lake variability in littoral invertebrate assemblages. ranking the importance of the five pressures on littoral invertebrate assemblages, after accounting for covariance with natural factors and other pressures, showed that acidity > agriculture > forestry > urbanization >= invasive species. although about 10% of the lakes were acidified according to chemical criteria, our finding that acidity was ranked first is partly due to the naturally low ph of humic boreal lakes, and not acidification per se. comparison of species composition to cumulative pressure load revealed no clear patterns. species composition (ca axis 1 scores) in lakes with one or more pressures differed from sites with no pressures, but cumulative pressure effects were non-significant. a significant three-pressure impact was found for species composition characterized by ca axis 2 scores, related to the combined pressures of agriculture, invasive species and urbanization. collectively, our results show that littoral invertebrate assemblages respond uniquely to several different pressures, underpinning their use as a biomonitoring tool for assessing the ecological status of lakes. ranking the effects of individual pressures as done here is a critical step in designing and implementing measures to protect and mitigate anthropogenic effects on biodiversity loss."
"32" "Long-term trends in a northern gulf of mexico common bottlenose dolphin (tursiops truncatus) population in the wake of the deepwater horizon oil spill" "Bottlenose dolphins along the northern gulf of mexico continue to be impacted by numerous stressors including harmful algal blooms, infectious disease epizootics, and oil exposure following the deepwater horizon (dwh) oil spill. Studies to assess the potential impacts of the dwh oil spill on dolphins in the northern gulf of mexico were initiated as part of a natural resource damage assessment and included photographic-identification (photo id) surveys to determine abundance, density, and site fidelity in st. Joseph bay, florida (sjb). Although significant oiling did not occur in sjb, long-term data have been collected in this region to provide insight into population-level trends in abundance/density over time. Thus, sjb dolphins could serve as a reference for comparison to other dolphin populations exposed to dwh oiling. During 2005-2007, the results of photo id and telemetry surveys determined seasonal fluctuations in abundance and identified two different dolphin populations in sjb: residents sighted across multiple seasons and years (st. Joseph bay stock), and visitors that were present during the spring and fall and associated with a 2-3 fold increase in abundance (northern coastal stock). The goals for the current study were to compare dolphin abundance, density, and site fidelity, prior to (2005-2007), during (2010), and post-dwh (2011 and 2013) using photo-id surveys and a spatially explicit robust-design capture-recapture (serdcr) model. The data collected during and post-dwh paralleled previous research in that a low number of individuals with high site fidelity were sighted across seasons and years (st. Joseph bay stock), and abundance/density increased in the fall as a result of an influx of dolphins that were likely members of the northern coastal stock. However, june and august 2010 abundance (347; 193-498, 95% ci and 394; 288-534, 95% ci, respectively), density (dolphins/km(2)) (2.60; 1.36-3.70, 95% ci and 2.55; 1.89-3.29, 95% ci, respectively), and site fidelity patterns were more similar to previous years' spring and fall data, with high abundance estimates, increased dolphin density in coastal waters, and elevated numbers of individuals with low site fidelity in the sjb region. Factors that could have contributed to this increase in abundance include immigration of dolphins from adjacent estuaries, population growth within the st. Joseph bay stock, impacts from dwh oiling, and environmental and/or prey-based cues that influence movements of the northern coastal stock. The results of this study demonstrate the importance of long-term monitoring to assess impacts of current and future stressors on the dolphins in the northern gulf of mexico."
"33" "Using a trait-based approach to measure the impact of dam closure in fish communities of a neotropical river" "Damming is one of the main causes of the global decline in freshwater biodiversity. Yet, many hydroelectric dams are being built (or planned) in the neotropics, where the high species diversity and lack of basic ecological knowledge provide a major obstacle to understanding the effects of this environmental change, which has been mostly described from the perspective of taxonomic change. However, this approach does not account for biological function. Trait-based analysis provides an alternative approach to bioassessment. We assessed the impact of dam closure on the functional structure of fish communities of a neotropical river by applying trait-based analyses to the response of individual traits aggregated at the assemblage level. Fish data were collected during three distinct time periods (1 year before, 1 year after and 5 years after dam closure), at eight sites located downstream of the dam, in the reservoir, transition zone and upstream. The results indicated that reproduction strategies (migration and parental care) and diet (detritivores) were the trait categories mostly affected by the dam, with the response of downstream assemblages differing from upstream of the dam. A trait-based analysis to the impact of damming on fish communities appears to be a promising approach using an initial descriptive analysis of individual traits and regression models of multiple traits that reflect species' adaptation to the new environment. This study provides both an alternative and complementary approach to taxonomic assessment of impacts from damming, contributing towards a more robust evaluation of the response of fish communities to dams."
"34" "Outdoor recreation causes effective habitat reduction in capercaillie tetrao urogallus: a major threat for geographically restricted populations" "Outdoor recreation inflicts a wide array of impacts on individual animals, many of them reflected in the avoidance of disturbed areas. The scale and spatial extent, however, at which wildlife populations are affected, are mostly unclear. Particularly in geographically isolated populations, where restricted habitat availability may preclude a relocation to undisturbed areas, effective habitat reduction may remain underestimated or even unnoticed, when animals stay in disturbed areas and only show small-scale responses. Based on telemetry data, we investigated the spatial and seasonal effects of outdoor recreation - in relation to landscape and vegetation conditions - on western capercaillie tetrao urogallus, considering two scales, home range and within-home range habitat selection. We determined the distance-thresholds up to which recreation infrastructures were avoided and estimated the extent of affected habitat for the isolated black forest (southwestern germany) study population. While outdoor recreation did not affect home range selection, strong effects on habitat use within the home range were detected: distance to recreation infrastructure (hiking and cross-country skiing trails, ski pistes) was the main determinant of habitat selection in winter; in summer, mountain bike trails and hiker's restaurants were avoided up to an average distance of 145 m (ci: 60-1092 m). Around winter-infrastructure, relative avoidance was recorded up to 320 m (ci: 36-327 m), it was reduced, however, when dense understory provided visual cover. Of the entire population area, between 8-20% (summer) and 8-40% (winter) were affected by outdoor recreation, mainly in the high altitudes. Even without evident large-scale shifts in species distribution, local-scale avoidance of outdoor recreation can substantially contribute to effective habitat reduction. Based on our results we recommend a general reduction in recreation infrastructure density in key habitats, the establishment of undisturbed wildlife refuges with a diameter of at least 800 m, as well as enhancing visual protection by maintaining a strip of dense understory along trails."
"35" "Tourism And Recreation A Global Threat To Orchids" "Orchidaceae is a mega diverse family accounting for 10% of the world's flowering plants. Due to factors such as small dispersed populations, specific symbiosis with fungi and with pollinators and their desirability for collecting, many orchids are threatened with extinction. Tourism and recreation is increasingly recognised as a global threat for plants, but is it an issue for orchids? When data on orchids from the international union for nature conservation (iucn) red list was reviewed, we found that 149 (40%) of the 442 orchid species with threat data were at risk from tourism and recreation. This included: 98 (22%) species threatened by residential and commercial development for tourism and recreation, 75 (17%) by intentional collecting within protected areas, and 90 (20%) by human intrusions and disturbance from recreational activities. The three threats often co-occurred and hence can be treated as a threat syndrome. The proportion of species threatened varied among locations with 80% of the 65 species in east asia, 32% of 68 species in south and southeast asia and 94% of 16 orchid species in europe threatened by tourism and recreation. Terrestrial orchids and those growing in forests were more likely to be at risk from these threats. With so many species at risk, increased awareness and recognition of these threats combined with improved management to reduce impacts is needed. Gaps and inconsistencies in the iucn red list must also be addressed to obtain a better understanding of the extent of this, and other threats to plants."
"36" "Reductions in global biodiversity loss predicted from conservation spending" "Halting global biodiversity loss is central to the convention on biological diversity and united nations sustainable development goals(1,2), but success to date has been very limited(3-5). A critical determinant of success in achieving these goals is the financing that is committed to maintaining biodiversity(6-9); however, financing decisions are hindered by considerable uncertainty over the likely impact of any conservation investment(6-9). For greater effectiveness, we need an evidence-based model(10-12) that shows how conservation spending quantitatively reduces the rate of biodiversity loss. Here we demonstrate such a model, and empirically quantify how conservation investment between 1996 and 2008 reduced biodiversity loss in 109 countries (signatories to the convention on biological diversity and sustainable development goals), by a median average of 29% per country. We also show that biodiversity changes in signatory countries can be predicted with high accuracy, using a dual model that balances the effects of conservation investment against those of economic, agricultural and population growth (human development pressures)(13-18). Decision-makers can use this model to forecast the improvement that any proposed biodiversity budget would achieve under various scenarios of human development pressure, and then compare these forecasts to any chosen policy target. We find that the impact of spending decreases as human development pressures grow, which implies that funding may need to increase over time. The model offers a flexible tool for balancing the sustainable development goals of human development and maintaining biodiversity, by predicting the dynamic changes in conservation finance that will be needed as human development proceeds."
"37" "THE EFFECT OF CASCADED HUGE DAMS ON THE DOWNSTREAM MOVEMENT OF COREIUS GUICHENOTI (SAUVAGE & DABRY DE THIERSANT, 1874) IN THE UPPER YANGTZE RIVER" "huge dams (installed capacity > 100 mkw) are generally built on large rivers that display high biodiversity and include major migration routes for many diadromous and potamodromous fish. as a result, these dams lead to severe ecological impacts and receive more attention than smaller dams. most previous work on the impact of huge dams on fish downstream movement has focused on a single dam and reservoir, so little is known about the effect of cascaded huge dams and reservoirs on downstream movement. during the period 2012-2014, two huge dams (the xiangjiaba and the xiluodu) were constructed on the upper yangtze river and the reservoir impoundments began, respectively in october 2012 and may 2013. these cascaded hydroelectric projects could have a large adverse effect on the downstream movement of an important potamodromous fish species, coreius guichenoti. to study the effect of cascaded impact of sequential huge dams and reservoirs on passive and active downstream movement of c. guichenoti, eggs and larvae were collected in the yibin section during 2012-2014 and fish were collected monthly at a site in the hejiang section from june 2012 to july 2014. our results showed that, compared to one huge reservoir and dam, cascaded dams exert a more serious effect and obstruct downstream movement of eggs, larvae and young fish (particularly the yearlings and two-year-olds) of c. guichenoti. individual c. guichenoti were able to pass with relative ease through one reservoir and dam, but passing through both reservoirs and dams was very difficult. to allow access to the spawning grounds upstream, a fish passage should be built on the xiluodu dam. however, due to the hydropower development in the whole upper basin, captive breeding and maintaining at least 60 km of riverine habitat upstream of a spawning ground could be a more cost-effective approach to maintaining c. guichenoti populations in the upper yangtze river."
"38" "population biology of the sea star anasterias minuta (forcipulatida: asteriidae) threatened by anthropogenic activities in rocky intertidal shores of san matias gulf, patagonia, argentina" "in patagonian coastal areas, intertidal benthic communities are exposed to extreme physical conditions. the interaction between harsh environment and anthropogenic pressure can generate changes in population biology of marine invertebrates, like density and reproduction. the oral brooding sea star anasterias minuta is a key organism in food chains of atlantic patagonian rocky intertidals, hence changes on its population structure can negatively affect shore communities. we studied the population biology of a. minuta and assess the effect of environmental parameters and anthropogenic activities on its population on rocky intertidal shores of san matias gulf, patagonia, argentina. seasonal sea surface temperature, ph, salinity, water velocity, desiccation rate, boulders density, and anthropogenic influence (tourists and octopus fishermen) were recorded. in sites with less tourist influence and high refuge, an increase in density was recorded, especially during the summer. brooding individuals were found in fall and winter, while feeding individuals were observed in all seasons (12 different prey, mainly the molluscs tegula patagonica and perumytilus purpuratus). environmental variables such as boulders density and water velocity were the most important predictor of variation in population structure. tourism and ph were the most important variables negatively correlated with density."
"39" "The \"resort effect\": can tourist islands act as refuges for coral reef species?" "Aimthere is global consensus that marine protected areas offer a plethora of benefits to the biodiversity within and around them. Nevertheless, many organisms threatened by human impacts also find shelter in unexpected or informally protected places. For coral reef organisms, refuges can be tourist resorts implementing local environment-friendly bottom-up management strategies. We used the coral reef ecosystem as a model to test whether such practices have positive effects on the biodiversity associated with de facto protected areas. Locationnorth ari atoll, maldives. Methodswe modelled the effects of the environment and three human management regimes (tourist resorts, uninhabited and local community islands) on the abundance and diversity of echinoderms and commercially important fish species, the per cent cover of reef benthic organisms (corals, calcareous coralline algae, turf and macroalgae) and the proportion of coral disease. We used multivariate techniques to assess the differences between reef components among the management regimes. Resultsreefs varied between the management regimes. A positive resort effect was found on sessile benthic organisms, with good coral cover and significantly less algae at resort islands. Corals were larger and had fewer diseases in uninhabited islands. Minor resort effect was detected on motile species represented by commercial fish and echinoderms. Main conclusionsin countries where natural biodiversity strongly sustains the tourist sector and where local populations rely on natural resources, a balance between tourism development, local extraction practices and biodiversity conservation is necessary. The presence of eco-friendly managed resorts, which practices would need to be certified on the long term, is beneficial to protect certain organisms. House reefs around resorts could therefore provide areas adding to existing marine protected areas, while marine protection efforts in local community islands should focus on improving fishing management."
"40" "Tourism impacts on benthic communities of sandy beaches" "This study evaluated the effect of human trampling on the benthic macrofauna of two beaches in southeast brazil with different levels of intensity of tourism, grussai (more impacted) and manguinhos (less impacted), during periods of high and low tourism activity. The macrofauna of urbanized (u) and non-urbanized (nu) sectors of the inter-tidal zone was sampled and the number of visitors was recorded. General linear models revealed a decreasing in abundance of macrofauna species in the urbanized sectors of analyzed beaches, which are exposed to higher trampling impact than in non-urbanized areas. At manguinhos beach, trampling did not affect the macrofauna (<1 visitors.m(-2)), except for the polychaete scolelepis sp., which was less abundant in the u sector. Considering the benthic community, atlantorchestoidea brasiliensis, hemipodia californiensis and scolelepis sp. Were more sensitive to human trampling pressure and may be used as potential bioindicators of tourism impact. Management plans should consider mitigation of the effects of tourism, such as the control of the visitor number and their decentralization."
"41" "Subtle differences in birds detected between organic and nonorganic farms in saskatchewan prairie parklands by farm pair and bird functional group" "Organic farming may be more beneficial to biodiversity than nonorganic farming but the comparison is often confounded by regional within-farm and landscape differences. We compared breeding bird species composition and abundance on 10 farm pairs of each type matched at the site level for land cover in the prairie parklands of saskatchewan, canada in 1990. Land cover was measured around bird point counts at two extents; 'site' (6.3 ha area) and 'field' (16.3 ha area). We pooled species into functional groups; linear mixed models showed no significant differences between farm types for species richness but that all birds, migratory birds using crops and aerial insectivores were more abundant on organic farms. A permutational multivariate analysis of variance demonstrated that farm type did not have a significant overall effect on compositional similarity but that pairwise differences existed between about half of the farm pairs (the direction of differences in beta diversity was not consistent between organic and nonorganic fauns according to tests for the homogeneity of multivariate dispersions). Farm-pair differences were more pronounced for all birds and for migratory bird species using crops, migratory birds consuming grains and ground feeders, but not grassland birds. Nmds ordinations suggested that there was more variation in species composition and abundance on organic farms than nonorganic ones but the difference was not significant. Distance-based redundancy analysis (dbitda) was used to examine the main drivers of bird species composition and abundance and to see which extent was most important; land cover at the field extent was more important than land cover at the site extent or the farming practices measured. The most important field-extent land cover was the amount of native grassland, woodland (including shelterbelts) and wetlands. After controlling for significant field-extent land cover, seed treatment, herbicide use, and number of passes were significant. At the site extent, greater non-crop heterogeneity had a significantly positive effect on abundance and species richness of several groups (e.g., grassland birds, migratory granivores, ground feeders, ground nesters) but a negative effect on richness of woodland birds and abundance of aerial insectivores. Relationships with crop heterogeneity were mostly negative and non-significant. Overall land cover heterogeneity at the site level was positively related to the richness of grassland birds. In contrast at the field extent, non-crop heterogeneity did not have any significant effects on the richness and abundance of any functional group. Crop heterogeneity had a significantly negative effect on aerial insectivore richness and abundance. In the early 1990s, differences in birds between organic and nonorganic farms in saskatchewan were evident but subtle and variable among farms, and apparently most related to land cover-bird assemblage interactions/relationships."
"42" "How is wood-based pellet production affecting forest conditions in the southeastern united states?" "Exports of woody pellets from the southeastern united states (us) for european power plants have expanded since 2009, leading to concerns about major negative environmental effects. Us exports of wood pellets have grown from essentially nothing in 2008 to 4.6 million metric tons in 2015, with 99% of us pellets being shipped to europe. To examine effects of this recent expansion of the pellet industry on forest conditions, we use us department of agriculture forest service (usfs) forest inventory and analysis (fia) annual survey data for 2002-2014 to analyze changes in timberland trends since 2009 for two fuelsheds supplying pellets to the ports of chesapeake, virginia, and savannah, georgia. This analysis reveals that the chesapeake fuelshed had significant increases in acreage of large trees and harvestable carbon after 2009. Furthermore, the timberland volume within plantations increased in the chesapeake fuelshed after 2009. The savannah fuelshed had significant increases in volume, areas with large trees, and all carbon pools after 2008. Increases in carbon in live trees for the chesapeake fuelshed and all carbon pools for the savannah fuelshed for the years before and after 2009 provide empirical support to prior estimates that production of wood-based pellets in the southeast us can enhance greenhouse gas sequestration. Both fuelsheds retained more naturally regenerating stands than plantations; however the number of standing dead trees increased within naturally regenerating stands and declined within plantations (but only significantly for the savannah fuelshed). While the decrease in the number of standing dead trees per hectare for the savannah fuelshed plantations after 2009 warrants investigation into its effects on biodiversity, others have recommended thinning and hardwood mid-story control within pine plantations to provide habitat for regionally declining bird species, which is consistent with use of biomass for energy and reducing the risk of fire. While all energy use affects the environment, these results show that benefits accrue when sustainable forest management provides wood pellets for energy that keep fossil fuel in the ground. By contrast urbanization is the greatest cause of forest loss in the se us. It is essential to consistently monitor and assess forest conditions to assess changes, for exports of wood-based pellets for the southern us are expected to grow. Even though use of pellets for energy has more than doubled, the pellet industry constitutes < 1% of us forest products by weight. Therefore, any recent changes, in se us forest conditions are more likely related to the 2008 declines in the housing market. Continued analysis of annual fia data using the methods outlined in this manuscript provides a scientifically valid approach for ongoing assessment. (C) 2017 elsevier b.v. All rights reserved."
"43" "Tracking progress toward eu biodiversity strategy targets: eu policy effects in preserving its common farmland birds" "Maximizing the area under biodiversity-related conservation measures is a main target of the european union (eu) biodiversity strategy to 2020. We analyzed whether agrienvironmental schemes (aes) within eu common agricultural policy, special protected areas for birds (spas), and annex i designation within eu birds directive had an effect on bird population changes using monitoring data from 39 farmland bird species from 1981 to 2012 at eu scale. Populations of resident and short-distance migrants were larger with increasing spas and aes coverage, while annex i species had higher population growth rates with increasing spas, indicating that spas may contribute to the protection of mainly target species and species spending most of their life cycle in the eu. Because farmland birds are in decline and the negative relationship of agricultural intensification with their population growth rates was evident during the implementation of aes and spas, eu policies seem to generally attenuate the declines of farmland bird populations, but not to reverse them."
"44" "Influence of tourists on the summer bat colonies in the devetashka cave, bulgaria" "Microchiropteran bats, in particular cave dwellers, are adversely affected by human activity. In this connection, we assessed the state of the bat colonies in relation to tourist abundance and behaviour in the devetashka cave, bulgaria. The cave is of european importance for bat conservation and houses more than 10,000 bats in the summer. However, during the weekends it is subject to an enormous tourist flow consisting of 500-1000 persons per day. In order to estimate the tourist factor, the number of people, whether flashlights and photoflashes were used and the maximum noise produced were recorded during observation sessions. Bat abundance, activity and adult and juvenile mortality were recorded in order to track the condition of the bat colonies. We discovered a strong positive relationship between the number of visitors to the cave and bat mortality (r = 0.569, p < 0.05). Light was the tourist factor with highest negative influence on the colonies. The extent of tourist influence on the bats is discussed and necessary measures to reduce it are suggested. Cave tours will need a special consideration, so that they can be designed to minimize as much as possible the detrimental effect human activity has on bats, thus the visitation regime of the devetashka cave will be revised based on the findings of this study."
"45" "FISH ASSEMBLAGES FROM TOURISTIC AND NON-VISITED HEADWATER STREAMS DIFFER" "NATURE-BASED TOURISM IS A GROWING INDUSTRY IN RECENT YEARS, INCLUDING UNDERWATER TRAILS IN CLEAR HEADWATER STREAMS. THESE ACTIVITIES, HOWEVER, BRING LITTLE KNOWN IMPACTS, MOST OF THEM IN THE INDIVIDUAL AND POPULATION LEVELS. TO INVESTIGATE IF HUMAN PRESENCE CAN AFFECT THE FISH COMMUNITY, WE COMPARED SIMILAR REFERENCE AND TOURISM AREAS IN TERMS OF SPECIES ACCUMULATION CURVE, ECOLOGICAL INDICATORS (RICHNESS, TOTAL ABUNDANCE, DIVERSITY AND DOMINANCE), COMPOSITION SIMILARITY AND INDICATOR SPECIES. ONLY FISH ABUNDANCE DID NOT DIFFER BETWEEN REFERENCE AND TOURISM AREAS. RICHNESS, DIVERSITY AND DOMINANCE WERE ALL HIGHER IN TOURISM AREAS. FISH SPECIES COMPOSITION ALSO DIFFERED BETWEEN REFERENCE AND TOURISM, GUIDED BY SPECIES SUBSTITUTION. WE ADD ECOLOGICAL DATA TO PREVIOUS BEHAVIORAL STUDIES THAT HAVE ALREADY EVIDENCED THE EFFECTS OF TOURISM ON FISH. WE ALSO SUGGEST A STRICT CONTROL OF THE NUMBER AND PERMANENCE OF VISITORS IN THE WATER, THE FORBIDDANCE OF FISH FEEDING AND MAINTENANCE OF THE RIPARIAN COVERAGE TO AVOID IRREVERSIBLE DAMAGES TO THESE FRAGILE ENVIRONMENTS."
"46" "BIOTIC HOMOGENIZATION IN AN INCREASINGLY URBANIZED TEMPERATE GRASSLAND ECOSYSTEM" "question how does urbanization and associated declines in fire frequency alter the floristic composition of native temperate grasslands? does it lead to: (1) biotic homogenization, i.e. compositional similarity between remnants increases; (2) biotic differentiation, whereby similarity between remnants declines, or; (3) clustered differentiation, where similarity between remnants remains unchanged, but composition shifts from the historical state? location victoria, australia. methods using site-level surveys, we examined changes in the floristic similarity of 29 urban grasslands from 1992 to 2013 and compared these changes to those of 63 rural grasslands from 1989 to 2014. community-level changes in the representation of key functional traits were also examined in urban grasslands, with traits advantaged following disturbance regime change and urban fragmentation predicted to increase in frequency. results our results supported the biotic homogenization hypothesis in urban grasslands. compositional similarity between grasslands increased principally because of an increase in commonly shared non-native species, with change in native composition comparatively minor. however, no evidence of biotic homogenization was found in rural grasslands, with no significant change in overall composition identified. the most urbanized sites had the highest number of non-native species in both the current and historical data sets, yet non-native composition over the past two decades changed the most in sites on the urban fringe, becoming more similar to sites closer to the urban core. as expected, following declines in fire frequency and increased urbanization, the overall composition of urban grasslands shifted to taller plant species, while native species capable of vegetative reproduction and exotic species with an annual life span increased in frequency. conclusion urbanization was an important driver of biodiversity change in the investigated system, with increasing competition intensity in response to disturbance regime change a likely cause of biotic homogenization. our results demonstrate that non-native species are a key driver of biotic homogenization, emphasizing the importance of managing non-native immigration and maintaining historical disturbance processes once native ecosystems become urbanized."
"47" "Measuring the impact of the pet trade on indonesian birds" "The trade in wild animals involves one-third of the world's bird species and thousands of other vertebrate species. Although a few species are imperiled as a result of the wildlife trade, the lack of field studies makes it difficult to gauge how serious a threat it is to biodiversity. We used data on changes in bird abundances across space and time and information from trapper interviews to evaluate the effects of trapping wild birds for the pet trade in sumatra, indonesia. To analyze changes in bird abundance over time, we used data gathered over 14 years of repeated bird surveys in a 900-ha forest in southern sumatra. In northern sumatra, we surveyed birds along a gradient of trapping accessibility, from the edge of roads to 5 km into the forest interior. We interviewed 49 bird trappers in northern sumatra to learn which species they targeted and how far they went into the forest to trap. We used prices from sumatran bird markets as a proxy for demand and, therefore, trapping pressure. Market price was a significant predictor of species declines over time in southern sumatra (e.g., given a market price increase of approximately $50, the log change in abundance per year decreased by 0.06 on average). This result indicates a link between the market-based pet trade and community-wide species declines. In northern sumatra, price and change in abundance were not related to remoteness (distance from the nearest road). However, based on our field surveys, high-value species were rare or absent across this region. The median maximum distance trappers went into the forest each day was 5.0 km. This suggests that trapping has depleted bird populations across our remoteness gradient. We found that less than half of sumatra's remaining forests are >5 km from a major road. Our results suggest that trapping for the pet trade threatens birds in sumatra. Given the popularity of pet birds across southeast asia, additional studies are urgently needed to determine the extent and magnitude of the threat posed by the pet trade."
"48" "QUANTIFYING BIODIVERSITY LOSSES DUE TO HUMAN CONSUMPTION: A GLOBAL-SCALE FOOTPRINT ANALYSIS" "IT IS INCREASINGLY RECOGNIZED THAT HUMAN CONSUMPTION LEADS TO CONSIDERABLE LOSSES OF BIODIVERSITY. THIS STUDY IS THE FIRST TO SYSTEMATICALLY QUANTIFY THESE LOSSES IN RELATION TO LAND USE AND GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS ASSOCIATED WITH THE PRODUCTION AND CONSUMPTION OF (INTER)NATIONALLY TRADED GOODS AND SERVICES BY PRESENTING CONSUMPTION-BASED BIODIVERSITY LOSSES, IN SHORT BIODIVERSITY FOOTPRINT, FOR 45 COUNTRIES AND WORLD REGIONS GLOBALLY. OUR RESULTS SHOWED THAT (I) THE BIODIVERSITY LOSS PER CITIZEN SHOWS LARGE VARIATIONS AMONG COUNTRIES, WITH HIGHER VALUES WHEN PER-CAPITA INCOME INCREASES; (II) THE SHARE OF BIODIVERSITY LOSSES DUE TO GHG EMISSIONS IN THE BIODIVERSITY FOOTPRINT INCREASES WITH INCOME; (III) FOOD CONSUMPTION IS THE MOST IMPORTANT DRIVER OF BIODIVERSITY LOSS IN MOST OF THE COUNTRIES AND REGIONS, WITH A GLOBAL AVERAGE OF 40%; (IV) MORE THAN 50% OF THE BIODIVERSITY LOSS ASSOCIATED WITH CONSUMPTION IN DEVELOPED ECONOMIES OCCURS OUTSIDE THEIR TERRITORIAL BOUNDARIES; AND (V) THE BIODIVERSITY FOOTPRINT PER DOLLAR CONSUMED IS LOWER FOR WEALTHIER COUNTRIES. THE INSIGHTS PROVIDED BY OUR ANALYSIS MIGHT SUPPORT POLICYMAKERS IN DEVELOPING ADEQUATE RESPONSES TO AVERT FURTHER LOSSES OF BIODIVERSITY WHEN POPULATION AND INCOMES INCREASE. BOTH THE MITIGATION OF GHG EMISSIONS AND LAND USE RELATED REDUCTION OPTIONS IN PRODUCTION AND CONSUMPTION SHOULD BE CONSIDERED IN STRATEGIES TO PROTECT MEAN SPECIES ABUNDANCE CONSUMPTION GLOBAL BIODIVERSITY."
"49" "DO YOU COME FROM A LAND DOWN UNDER?' CHARACTERISTICS OF THE INTERNATIONAL TRADE IN AUSTRALIAN ENDEMIC PARROTS" "THE WILDLIFE PET TRADE IS A BILLION DOLLAR TRANSNATIONAL BUSINESS THAT HAS DEVASTATING EFFECTS ON GLOBAL BIODIVERSITY. AUSTRALIAN PARROTS ARE HIGHLY SOUGHT BY OVERSEAS COLLECTORS DUE TO THEIR UNIQUENESS, HOWEVER, THE CHARACTERISTICS OF THIS DEMAND ARE POORLY UNDERSTOOD. WE USED TRADE REPORTS TO THE CONVENTION ON INTERNATIONAL TRADE IN ENDANGERED SPECIES OF WILD FAUNA AND FLORA (CITES) TRADE DATABASE TO ANALYSE SPATIAL AND TEMPORAL TRENDS IN LIVE COMMERCIAL TRADE OF AUSTRALIAN ENDEMIC PARROTS. WE ALSO INVESTIGATED WHETHER THE VOLUME OF TRADE IS INFLUENCED BY VARIABLES RELATED TO SPECIES AVAILABILITY AND POPULARITY IN AUSTRALIA, AND EASE OF CAPTIVE BREEDING. WE COLLECTED INFORMATION ON OVER 20,000 TRANSACTIONS FOR THE PERIOD 1975-2014. BETWEEN THE YEARS 2000 AND 2005 THE VOLUME OF TRADE SHARPLY DECLINED, POSSIBLY DUE TO THE EFFECT OF INTERNATIONAL BIRD TRADE BANS AS A RESPONSE TO THE AVIAN INFLUENZA CRISIS. AUSTRALIA HAS A MINIMAL ROLE IN THE TRADE OF ITS OWN ENDEMIC PARROTS, EVEN BEFORE THE PASSING OF THE AUSTRALIAN ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AND BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION (EPBC) ACT 1999 THAT BANNED THE EXPORT OF NATIVE WILDLIFE. KEY INTERNATIONAL EXPORTERS ARE NETHERLANDS (25.8% OF ALL EXPORTS) AND BELGIUM (17.5%), AND CAPTIVE BREEDING IS THE MAJOR SOURCE. THE USA (7.5% OF ALL IMPORTS) AND JAPAN (7.3%) ARE KEY IMPORTERS, AND NETHERLANDS, USA AND SOUTH AFRICA ARE ALSO MAJOR INTERMEDIARIES. SPECIES THAT HAVE LARGER AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTIONS, AND SPECIES ABUNDANT IN AUSTRALIAN PRIVATE AND PUBLIC CAPTIVITY, ARE TRADED INTERNATIONALLY IN HIGHER VOLUMES. INTERNATIONAL TRADE IN AUSTRALIAN ENDEMIC PARROTS IS AN EXAMPLE OF AN EXOTIC PET MARKET THAT IS SUSTAINABLY SUPPLIED BY OVERSEAS CAPTIVE BREEDING, WHILE NATIVE POPULATIONS ARE EFFECTIVELY PROTECTED BY GENUINE NATIONAL TRADE BANS. (C) 2017 ELSEVIER LTD. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED."
"50" "Can private management compensate the ineffective marine reserves in china?" "Marine reserves (mrs) have emerged as a preferred method to protect coral reefs from overfishing and human disturbance. However, due to ineffective enforcement by governments, many mrs have been reduced to mere \"paper parks\" which fail to achieve conservation goals. This is especially true in countries such as china where compliance is low and resources dedicated to enforcement may be scarce. Privately managed marine reserves (pmmrs) may be effective in areas where government enforcement is lacking. To determine if pmmrs are a viable alternative strategy to protect coral reefs, we surveyed and compared fish assemblages and coral coverage in national mrs in sanya, china to areas of reef privately leased to and managed by dive operators and hospitality industries. We found higher fish abundances and fish sizes in pmmr sites than in mr sites. However, while pmmrs are protected from fishing, other human impacts such as marine debris and illegal coral collection were evident in most tourist sites. Despite protection, long-term monitoring data of pmmrs revealed that in recent years, fish abundances have slightly recovered but species richness has not, indicating the need for a more comprehensive coral reef management plan. We strongly recommend coupling pmmrs with expertise supported regulations as an alternative coral reef management strategy in china."
"51" "WHAT INFLUENCES THE PLANT COMMUNITY COMPOSITION ON DELHI RIDGE? THE ROLE PLAYED BY PROSOPIS JULIFLORA AND ANTHROPOGENIC DISTURBANCES" "SCIENTIFIC STUDIES IN THE PAST HAVE HIGHLIGHTED THE EFFECTS OF PROSOPIS JULIFLORA ON NATIVE VEGETATION. HOWEVER, MOST OF THESE STUDIES DO NOT CONSIDER THE INFLUENCE OF EXTERNAL FACTORS LIKE DISTURBANCES ON THE VEGETATION COMMUNITY UNDER P. JULIFLORA CANOPY. THUS, THIS STUDY EXPANDS THE DISCUSSION ON THE EFFECTS OF INVASIVE SPECIES ON NATIVE VEGETATION UNDER TWO HUMAN DISTURBANCE INTENSITIES (LOW AND HIGH) ON DELHI RIDGE. VEGETATION CHARACTERISTICS LIKE SPECIES COMPOSITION AND DIVERSITY, FUNCTIONAL TRAITS OF GROUND VEGETATION AND THE REGENERATION OF TREE SPECIES WERE STUDIED, TO ASSESS THE ROLE PLAYED BY P. JULIFLORA IN CONJUNCTION WITH ANTHROPOGENIC DISTURBANCES LIKE GRAZING, CUTTING AND TRAMPLING. WE FOUND THAT WHILE P. JULIFLORA HAD NO ADVERSE INFLUENCE ON NATIVE PLANT BIODIVERSITY, GRAZING AND OTHER FORMS OF ANTHROPOGENIC DISTURBANCE HAD THE MOST SIGNIFICANT NEGATIVE EFFECTS ON THE VEGETATION. THE P. JULIFLORA CANOPY SHOWED NO OR LOW INFLUENCE ON THE VEGETATION CHARACTERISTICS STUDIED. INDEED, THE COVERAGE OF NATIVE TREES WAS POSITIVELY CORRELATED WITH THE COVER OF P. JULIFLORA IMPLYING THAT P. JULIFLORA ACTS AS A NURSE TREE FACILITATING THE REGENERATION OF NATIVE SPECIES UNDER ITS CANOPY. THESE FINDINGS CONTRADICT THE COMMON ASSUMPTION THAT P. JULIFLORA CAUSES A DECLINE IN NATIVE PLANT BIODIVERSITY. HOWEVER, IN THE FORESTS OF NEW DELHI THIS RELATIONSHIP, IN CONJUNCTION WITH THE INFLUENCE OF ANTHROPOGENIC DISTURBANCES, HAS BEEN SPARINGLY STUDIED. FUTURE RESEARCH SHOULD FOCUS ON THE MONITORING OF STRICTLY PROTECTED AREAS WITH AND WITHOUT P. JULIFLORA."
"52" "Influence of human activities on some medium and large-sized mammals' richness and abundance in the lacandon rainforest" "We evaluated the influence of six human activities (related variables) on the richness and abundance of large and medium-sized mammals in the southern portion of the lacandon rainforest, including protected and non-protected areas. The human activities measured have different influences on mammal richness and abundance. Our results show that some human activities (human density and anthropogenic land cover, and agriculture/cattle ranching) had no effect on large and medium-sized mammal populations, but community-based protection, such as medium levels of tourism and hunting, had a negative influence on richness and abundance. Those variables negatively influencing the mammal community were reported in one of the study sites. Data indicate both an opportunity for applied integral conservation actions that involve people and their activities, as well as an opportunity to support biodiversity conservation in agricultural landscapes by integrating human activities with protected areas and conservation. (C) 2016 elsevier gmbh. All rights reserved."
"53" "Trade in live reptiles, its impact on wild populations, and the role of the european market" "Of the 10,272 currently recognized reptile species, the trade of fewer than 8% are regulated by the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites) and the european wildlife trade regulations (ewtr). However, the international union for conservation of nature (iucn) red list has assessed 45% of the world's reptile species and determined that at least 1390 species are threatened by \"biological resource use\". Of these, 355 species are intentionally targeted by collectors, including 194 non-cites-listed species. Herein we review the global reptile pet trade, its impacts, and its contribution to the over-harvesting of species and populations, in light of current international law. Findings are based on an examination of relevant professional observations, online sources, and literature (e.g., applicable policies, taxonomy [reptile database], trade statistics [eurostat], and conservation status [iucn red list]). Case studies are presented from the following countries and regions: australia, central america, china, galapagos islands (ecuador), germany, europe, india, indonesia (kalimantan), islamic republic of iran, japan, madagascar, mexico, new zealand, the philippines, south africa, sri lanka, vietnam, western africa, and western asia. The european union (eu) plays a major role in reptile trade. Between 2004 and 2014 (the period under study), the eu member states officially reported the import of 20,788,747 live reptiles. This review suggests that illegal trade activities involve species regulated under cites, as well as species that are not cites-regulated but nationally protected in their country of origin and often openly offered for sale in the eu. Further, these case studies demonstrate that regulations and enforcement in several countries are inadequate to prevent the overexploitation of species and to halt illegal trade activities. (C) 2016 elsevier ltd. All rights reserved."
"54" "Urban dogs in rural areas: human-mediated movement defines dog populations in southern chile" "Management strategies for dog populations and their diseases include reproductive control, euthanasia and vaccination, among others. However, the effectiveness of these strategies can be severely affected by human-mediated dog movement. If immigration is important, then the location of origin of dogs imported by humans will be fundamental to define the spatial scales over which population management and research should apply. In this context, the main objective of our study was to determine the spatial extent of dog demographic processes in rural areas and the proportion of dogs that could be labeled as immigrants at multiple spatial scales. To address our objective we conducted surveys in households located in a rural landscape in southern chile. Interviews allowed us to obtain information on the demographic characteristics of dogs in these rural settings, human influence on dog mortality and births, the localities of origin of dogs living in rural areas, and the spatial extent of human-mediated dog movement. We found that most rural dogs (64.1%) were either urban dogs that had been brought to rural areas (40.0%), or adopted dogs that had been previously abandoned in rural roads (24.1%). Some dogs were brought from areas located as far as similar to 700 km away from the study area. Human-mediated movement of dogs, especially from urban areas, seems to play a fundamental role in the population dynamics of dogs in rural areas. Consequently, local scale efforts to manage dog populations or their diseases are unlikely to succeed if implemented in isolation, simply because dogs can be brought from surrounding urban areas or even distant locations. We suggest that efforts to manage or study dog populations and related diseases should be implemented using a multi-scale approach. (C) 2016 elsevier b.v. All rights reserved."
"55" "CORALS IN HIGH DIVERSITY REEFS RESIST HUMAN IMPACT" "coral reefs are amongst the most diverse ecosystems in the biosphere. however, they also represent one of the most threatened marine systems. apart from global change, especially fishing and tourism affect coral reefs either with mechanical damage or with increase of pollution and sedimentation. recently, the increase of disturbances has induced extensive changes in community structure and composition of coral reefs. well-balanced and rich communities can better resist disturbances and show a more rapid recovery, compared to less biodiverse systems. this study assesses the status of coral reefs subjected to several anthropogenic pressures, using a modified version of coral condition index (cci) that takes into account all acropora and pocillopora growth forms and considers a further category of coral damage: the presence of disease. the investigations were carried out at bangka island (north sulawesi, indonesia), where some of the most flourishing reefs in the country are present. the cci takes into account the extent of different damages on coral colonies, particularly of the genera acropora and pocillopora, being among the most widespread bioconstructors of local coral reefs and very sensitive to anthropogenic disturbances. the aim of the present work is to test whether the cci is a reliable index in different coral reefs, and to evaluate if highly biodiverse reefs show a better resistance to several human stressors. data showed high values of cci (0.9 on average) at all the investigated sites and at the two depths (3 and 9 m) for each site, with the most abundant category represented by \"healthy coral colonies\". these data indicate a reasonably good health status of the reef in the study area (cci> 0.8). the presence of different types of human pressure in the study area was evaluated through the use of metric proxies. results do not seem to show any significant influence of such human activities on reef coral status, as shown by the low values of correlation between cci values and the distances of the study sites from the three main sources of stress (villages, resorts and other). moreover, the present data seem to confirm that highly biodiverse and well-structured assemblages can resist disturbances more efficiently and that human pressure in the study area is sustainable. compared to fishing activities, the impact of scuba diving on coral reef is lower, resulting more sustainable and ecologically non-destructive. cci summarizes many kinds of information and can be applicable in various areas with different pressures. it is a useful tool that might help to assist and guide management decisions towards alternative development models. (c) 2016 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved."
"56" "The influence of socioeconomic factors on the densities of high-value cross-border species, the african elephant" "Unprecedented poaching levels triggered by demand for ivory in far east asia are threatening the persistence of african elephant loxodonta africana. Southern african countries make an important contribution to elephant conservation and could soon become the last stronghold of elephant conservation in africa. While the ecological factors affecting elephant distribution and densities have extensively been accounted for, there is a need to understand which socioeconomic factors affect elephant numbers in order to prevent conflict over limited space and resources with humans. We used elephant count data from aerial surveys for seven years in a generalized linear model, which accounted for temporal correlation, to investigate the effect of six socioeconomic and ecological variables on the number of elephant at the country level in the greater mapungubwe transfrontier conservation area (gmtfca). Important factors in predicting elephant numbers were the proportion of total land surface under cultivation, human population density and the number of tourists visiting the country. Specifically, elephant numbers were higher where the proportion of total land surface under cultivation was the lowest; where population density was the lowest and where tourist numbers had increased over the years. Our results confirm that human disturbance is affecting elephant numbers, but highlight that the benefits provided by ecotourism could help enhance elephant conservation. While future studies should include larger areas and more detailed data at the site level, we stress that the development of coordinated legislation and policies to improve land-use planning are needed to reduce the impact of increasing human populations and agriculture on elephant."
"57" "Shale gas development effects on the songbird community in a central appalachian forest" "In the last decade, unconventional drilling for natural gas from the marcellus-utica shale has increased exponentially in the central appalachians. This heavily forested region contains important breeding habitat for many neotropical migratory songbirds, including several species of conservation concern. Our goal'was to examine effects of unconventional gas development on forest habitat and breeding songbirds at a predominantly forested site from 2008 to 2015. Construction of gas well pads and infrastructure (e.g., roads, pipelines) contributed to an overall 4.5% loss in forest cover at the site, a 12.4% loss in core forest, and a 51.7%,increase in forest edge density. We evaluated the relationship between land-cover metrics and species richness within three avian guilds: forest interior, early-successional, and synanthropic, in addition to abundances of 21 focal species. Land-cover impacts were evaluated at two spatial extents: a point-level within 100-m and 500-m buffers of each avian survey station, and a landscape-level across the study area (4326 ha). Although we observed variability in species-specific responses, we found distinct trends in long-term response among the three avian guilds. Forest-interior guild richness declined at all points across the site and at points impacted within 100 m by shale gas but did not change at unimpacted points. Early-successional and synanthropic guild richness increased at all points and at impacted points. Our results suggest that shale gas development has the potential to fragment regional forests and alter avian communities, and that efforts to minimize new development in core forests will reduce negative impacts to forest dependent species. (C) 2016 elsevier ltd. All rights reserved."
"58" "Domestication of dyera polyphylla (miq.) Steenis in peatland agroforestry systems in jambi, indonesia" "As part of a broader pattern of recovery after decline called forest transition, tree cover and carbon stocks have increased through agroforestry systems in many parts of indonesia. The associated tree diversity transition implies that only the most useful parts of local tree flora are promoted. Swampland jelutong, dyera polyphylla, has been domesticated in peat areas jambi province, indonesia. We discuss jelutong domestication in two coastal districts, referring to seven steps in a gradual change from products collected from communal natural forests to specific genotypes managed on private farms. Domestication of d. Polyphylla in jambi was in the initial stages three decades ago, when jelutong latex was directly tapped from the trees in its natural habitat of peat swamp forests. Tapping jelutong latex stopped in 2005 following the national regulation taxing forest products. Some farmers then started jelutong cultivation, motivated by the profitability of trading jelutong latex in the past. Our on-farm study showed that jelutong can be planted in various mixed agroforestry systems, with rubber, coffee or oil palm as dominants. Planted jelutong with good farm management showed diameter growth rates of 1.3 to 1.9 cm year(-1). On-farm trials showed that dolomite as soil ameliorant did not affect diameter growth, but had some effect on height. Jelutong planted between young oil palm had the best performance, while jelutong that was underplanted in mature rubber gardens grew slowly. Slow market revival currently constrains further tree domestication of jelutong."
"59" "Landscape-level associations of wintering waterbird diversity and abundance from remotely sensed wetland characteristics of poyang lake" "Poyang lake, the largest freshwater wetland in china, provides critical habitat for wintering waterbirds from the east asian flyway; however, landscape drivers of non-uniform bird diversity and abundance are not yet well understood. Using a winter 2006 waterbird survey, we examined the relationships among metrics of bird community diversity and abundance and landscape characteristics of 51 wetland sub-lakes derived by an object-based classification of landsat satellite data. Relative importance of predictors and their sets was assessed using information-theoretic model selection and the akaike information criterion. Ordinary least squares regression models were diagnosed and corrected for spatial autocorrelation using spatial autoregressive lag and error models. The strongest and most consistent landscape predictors included normalized difference vegetation index for mudflat (negative effect) and emergent grassland (positive effect), total sub-lake area (positive effect), and proportion of submerged vegetation (negative effect). Significant spatial autocorrelation in linear regression was associated with local clustering of response and predictor variables, and should be further explored for selection of wetland sampling units and management of protected areas. Overall, results corroborate the utility of remote sensing to elucidate potential indicators of waterbird diversity that complement logistically challenging ground observations and offer new hypotheses on factors underlying community distributions."
"60" "Assessing The Performance Of Eu Nature Legislation In Protecting Target Bird Species In An Era Of Climate Change" "International legislation forms a cornerstone of conservation, yet its efficacy is rarely quantified. We assess whether species listed on annex i of the european union (eu) birds directive, for which eu member states are obliged to implement special conservation measures, differ systematically in their short-term (2001-2012) or long-term (1980-2012) population trends from those of non-annex i species. In both periods, annex i species had more positive trends than non-annex i species, particularly in countries that joined the eu earlier. There were additional signatures of climate change and life history strategy in the trends of species in one or both periods. Within annex i species, long-distance migrants fared significantly worse than other species, suggesting that enhanced protection on the breeding grounds alone may be insufficient for these species. We conclude that the eu's conservation legislation has had a demonstrably positive impact on target species, even during a period in which climate change has significantly affected populations."
"61" "Beaches under pressure - effects of human access on vegetation at baltic sea beaches" "Questions: how do cover, richness and composition of plant species vary according to different levels of beach access? What shifts in plant traits occur along gradients of tourism intensity? What recommendations regarding the sustainable management of baltic sea beaches can be proposed? Location: southern baltic sea beaches in germany. Methods: in this study, the species composition of vascular plants on beaches with differing accessibility to tourists was analysed at the southwest baltic sea coast. In total, 894 vegetation plots were evaluated in order to determine vegetation changes along the sea-inland gradient due to different levels of human accessibility at beaches. Releves were conducted as repeated transects from the beach ridge to the shore. Shifts in vegetation characteristics due to different levels of tourism access were analysed at the level of plant communities and plant species traits. Results: species richness did not differ significantly between the levels of accessibility. Vegetation cover significantly increased with distance to the shore and was highest in the upper shore area of closed beaches (52.0 +/- 2.7%). Corresponding to the increase in beach access, we observed an increase in ruderal species and a decrease in typical beach species of the vegetation class honckenyo-elymetea. Tourism access and distance to the shoreline had a decisive influence on the distribution of plants with selected plant traits. In particular, at accessible sites, a loss of plants with leaves having high scleromorphy was recorded. Conclusions: increased beach access results in a loss of typical beach plant species. Changes in vegetation characteristics are considered to alter the function of the beach ecosystem. Based on these results, we derived spatially differentiated management measures for excluding the most sensitive beach areas from tourism."
"62" "Impacts of aquaculture on fish biodiversity in the freshwater lake laguna de bay, philippines" "Laguna de bay is the largest inland water body in the philippines, being used predominantly for aquaculture and open water fisheries. Aquaculture in the lake began decades ago, with many changes in the lake ecosystem having occurred since that time. Most dominant species for fish culture are introduced species. Other invasive species were also introduced to the lake as escapees from land-based aquaculture facilities. This study was conducted to monitor fish diversity in two adjacent, but distinctly different, sites in the lake, namely an open fishery area (ofs), with no adjacent aquaculture structures, and an aquaculture site (aqs), with cages for the culture of various commodities. Fish traps were installed at both sites, with the traps being sampled at least every 2weeks from april 2013 to february 2015. The results of pairwise t-tests indicated significantly higher shannon-wiener diversity index (h), evenness (j), simpson's similarity index (d) and species richness (s) in ofs than in aqs. In terms of total catch per day, significantly greater fish biomass were obtained from aqs than from ofs. Introduced aquaculture species had a mean dominance of 83% and 47% in aqs and ofs, respectively. However, invasive species introduced from the ornamental fish trade exhibited a mean relative dominance of 10.3% in aqs and 13.5% in ofs. The relative dominance of native species was also significantly higher in ofs (41%) than in aqs (6.5%). The results of this study demonstrated the adverse impacts of aquaculture in regard to the species diversity of fish in localized areas in laguna de bay. The dependency of aquaculture on introduced fish species adversely impacted the natural fish population in the lake. Focusing on the culture of commercially important local species for aquaculture, rather than introduced species, will improve fish production of inland waters without accompanying adverse impacts on biodiversity."
"63" "Lake macroinvertebrate assemblages and relationship with natural environment and tourism stress in jiuzhaigou natural reserve, china" "With increasing human population and urbanization, tourism in natural reserves and other protected lands is growing. It is critical to monitor and assess the impacts of tourism on ecosystem health. However, there is a general lack of information on biological communities in natural reserves of developing countries and of tools for assessing human impacts. In the present study, we investigated macroinvertebrate assemblages in nine lakes in jiuzhaigou natural reserve of china. Both benthic (20 dips of d-net) and light-trap samples (2 h) were collected at each lake and all benthic specimens and adults of ephemeroptera, plecoptera, and trichoptera (ept) were identified and counted. Water temperature and water quality variables were measured on site or in the lab. Seventy taxa were recorded and dominated by dipterans and caddisflies. Light traps contributed 47% of taxa richness and 66% of ept richness at the lakes. Detrended correspondence analysis showed that water temperature and tourism index were strongly associated with the changes of assemblage composition. Taxa richness and eft richness calculated for the composite samples (benthic+light trap) were well fit with poisson generalized linear model (adjusted r-2 = 0.83 and 0.85, respectively), generally decreasing with increasing elevation, tourism index, and total-n. Tourism index was ranked as the top predictor for ept richness based on multiple model weights, and elevation for taxa richness. In comparison, when based on benthic samples, neither of the metrics could be fitted with the seven environmental variables selected. These findings highlight the benefit of combined use of the sampling methods for lake monitoring and offered an analytical guide to developing biological indicators of lake ecosystem health in protected areas. (C) 2015 elsevier ltd. All rights reserved."
"64" "Do unpaved, low-traffic roads affect bird communities?" "Unpaved, low traffic roads are often assumed to have minimal effects on biodiversity. To explore this assertion, we sampled the bird communities in fifteen randomly selected sites in pafos forest, cyprus and used multiple regression to quantify the effects of such roads on the total species richness. Moreover, we classified birds according to their migratory status and their global population trends, and tested each category separately. Besides the total length of unpaved roads, we also tested: a. The site's habitat diversity, b. The coefficient of variation in habitat (patch) size, c. The distance to the nearest agricultural field, and d. The human population size of the nearest village. We measured our variables at six different distances from the bird point-count locations. We found a strong negative relationship between the total bird richness and the total length of unpaved roads. The human population size of the nearest village also had a negative effect. Habitat diversity was positively related to species richness. When the categories were tested, we found that the passage migrants were influenced more by the road network while resident breeders were influenced by habitat diversity. Species with increasing and stable populations were only marginally affected by the variables tested, but the effect of road networks on species with decreasing populations was large. We conclude that unpaved and sporadically used roads can have detrimental effects on the bird communities, especially on vulnerable species. We propose that actions are taken to limit the extent of road networks within protected areas, especially in sites designated for their rich avifauna, such as pafos forest, where several of the affected species are species of european and global importance. (C) 2016 elsevier masson sas. All rights reserved."
"65" "Diversity and community structure of fishes in the regulated versus unregulated tributaries of the mekong river" "Diversity and community structure of fishes were studied in three neighbouring tributaries of the mekong river in thailand, namely the mun, songkhram and gam rivers. The rivers are located in the same ecoregion but have contrasting levels of both hydrological regulations and mitigation measures; the mun river has a hydropower dam with a fish ladder and sluice gates that are opened during the wet season each year, the gam river has several irrigation dams with a fish ladder at each dam site, and the songkhram river has no dams along its river course. A total of 124 freshwater fish species were sampled in these rivers from august 2009 to june 2010. Overall species richness was highest in the songkhram river (112), followed by the mun (97) and gam (54) rivers. Average per site species richness was also significantly different among rivers but not among sampling months. Abundance-biomass comparison plots revealed considerably overlapping distributions of these two metrics from the dry to early rainy seasons in the songkhram river and, to a lesser extent, in the mun river. Fish assemblage data were classified into six clusters with similar community structure. Fish assemblages in the gam river constituted a single cluster, while those in the other two rivers formed multiple clusters depending on the sampling season. The results of the cluster analysis are discussed in relation to the dominance of the three migration guilds (white, black, and grey fishes) of the mekong river fishes. The effectiveness of the mitigation measures was determined to be limited in alleviating adverse impacts of dams in these tributaries of the mekong river. Copyright (c) 2014 john wiley & sons, ltd."
"66" "Evaluating Forest Management Intensity On An Umbrella Species: Capercaillie Persistence In Central Europe" "Deforestation and fragmentation of forests worldwide are negatively impacting biodiversity. The capercaillie (tetra urogallus) is an endangered umbrella species of montane forests in central europe. Despite its status, it has largely been overlooked in forest management planning in the carpathian mountains, a biodiversity hotspot within the european union. Previous investigations of timber management effects on capercaillie have shown contradictory results within europe; habitat loss and fragmentation due to intensive forest management have been implicated in population declines, while other studies have suggested neutral or positive effects. In romania, recent changes in forest management have shifted from extensive, selective logging to intensive clearcutting; this change provides the opportunity to assess the effects of harvesting on capercaillie numbers across a full range of forest management intensities, thereby addressing discrepancies in the literature. Across the southern and eastern carpathian mountains from 2009-2011, we used spring counts of capercaillie males at leks to evaluate the impact of forest management, other human activities, and habitat at two spatial scales - stand (similar to 2 ha) and landscape (similar to 300 ha). At the landscape level, the proportion of forest clearcuts and intensity of tourism had significant negative effects on the number of capercaillie males in the lek. In contrast, low intensity selective logging had a positive effect at the local stand (lek) level. Large scale (landscape level) forest clear-cutting had a negative effect on the capercaillie population - areas comprised of clearcuts of 30% reduced male lek counts by 76%. The protection of intact mature and old-growth forests, and forest management practices that emulate natural disturbance processes are recommended to support habitat of this critical umbrella species and associated biodiversity. (C) 2015 elsevier b.v. All rights reserved."
"67" "The impact of trampling on reef macrobenthos in northeastern brazil: how effective are current conservation strategies?" "Tropical reefs are used for intensive tourism in various parts of the world. However, few studies have investigated the effect of regular trampling on these fragile ecosystems. The aim of this study was to assess the effect of different conservation strategies (open access, partial protection, and total long-term closure) on intertidal reef tops in porto de galinhas and tamandar,, pernambuco state, brazil. Analysis of the macrobenthic community was performed with photo transects and image analysis (cpce). Twenty-seven transects were surveyed from january to august 2012, in intensively impacted (i) open-access sites, in partially protected (p) sites with occasional, illegal trampling, and in a permanently closed (c) site. In i sites, total live cover was half the cover found in adjacent p sites. The area of bare rock averaged 53.6 and 25.0 % in i and p sites, respectively. In the c site, the area of bare rock was only 19.8 %. In i and p sites, macroalgae (palisada perforata) were dominating, while in the c site, the zoanthid zoanthus sociatus was most abundant. Shell-bearing vermetids (petaloconchus varians) and bivalves (isognomon bicolor) were more abundant at the c site, being possible bioindicators for areas with zero or little trampling. Twelve years of total closure produced near-pristine communities in the c site, dominated by zoanthids and fragile mollusks. This study showed that trampling has severe and long-lasting consequences for the structure of these ecosystems."
"68" "Upstream and downstream responses of fish assemblages to an eastern amazonian hydroelectric dam" "1.Major hydroelectric dams are proliferating in tropical regions such as amazonia, where extensive new hydropower developments are planned despite potentially severe ecological and social impacts. The status of freshwater biota in the vicinity of existing dams could be valuable to predict the effects of such developments, but detailed ecological monitoring before and after dam construction is frequently lacking. 2.In the absence of these data, we used a space-for-time replacement to compare a key component of the aquatic biota at upstream and downstream sites, with the latter more closely resembling river channel conditions prior to the dam. We assessed the fish assemblages upstream and downstream of the coaracy nunes dam in amapa, brazil, the first ecological study at this site since this dam was constructed 42years earlier. We used gillnets during eight bimonthly field campaigns, covering both wet and dry seasons, and sampled the ichthyofauna (1819 individuals, 81 species) at four sites: downstream channel, reservoir, upstream lake and upstream channel. 3.We found clear negative impacts on the abundance, biomass, species richness, alpha diversity and species dominance upstream of the dam. The physical subdivision of the river channel and the upstream channel conversion from lentic to lotic habitats were strongly associated with differences in the composition and structure of fish communities. Notable changes include an increased contribution of small-bodied fish in the reservoir and an absence of long-distance migrants upstream of the dam. 4.Downstream channel habitats, in particular, retained their fish diversity with high conservation value typical of eastern amazonia, yet these areas now face the threat of new hydropower development farther downstream. The long-term impacts on aquatic biodiversity highlighted in this study are especially relevant in the face of burgeoning new hydroelectricity development plans for rivers across lowland amazonia."
"69" "THE EFFECTS OF DAM REMOVAL ON RIVER COLONIZATION BY SEA LAMPREY PETROMYZON MARINUS" "habitat fragmentation is an important cause of biodiversity loss in freshwater systems, as worldwide rivers have been fragmented by dams and other hydraulic structures. to restore freshwater fish populations, some barriers have been removed, but the long-term ecological effects of this removal have been rarely quantified. in the present study, we quantified the effects of barrier removal on river colonization by anadromous sea lamprey (petromyzon marinus) by analyzing the spatial distribution and nest density in a small coastal river (france) from 1994 to 2011. our results demonstrated the benefit of dam removal within few years after restoration. indeed, the spatial distribution of nests shifted significantly upstream and was more uniform throughout the river after removal. our results also suggest that the spatial patterns of habitat colonization were affected by the density of nests, river flow and connectivity. finally, although the number of nests was significantly higher after removal, it was not possible to clearly identify the contribution of intrinsic versus external factors involved in this pattern. further investigations are therefore needed to quantify the potential subsequent effects on juvenile recruitment and the overall population dynamics. copyright (c) 2014 john wiley & sons, ltd."
"70" "Ecological response to human trampling and conservation status of helianthemum caput-felis (cistaceae) at the eastern periphery of its range" "Border and isolated plant populations represent an interesting target for ecological and conservation issues. We analysed the ecological constraints and the conservation status of the eastern population of helianthemum caput-felis boiss. (Cistaceae), located in sardinia. The distribution of h. Caput-felis was verified via field surveys; ecological data, morphological and reproductive traits, were recorded in 40 permanent plots randomly established; the human trampling effects on plant density, plant size and plant performance were analysed. Plant density was higher in bedrock and lowland areas, in garrigue and maquis habitats; however, the differences among plants growing in different ecological conditions were not statistically significant; only human trampling intensity significantly affected plant density and lowest values were observed in areas with intense trampling pressure. All ecological variables analysed had a statistically significant effect on plant size and on the number of fruits per plant. In particular, larger plants were found in areas with the following ecological features: presence of structured soil, on the slopes, in the maquis habitat, and in areas with intensive human trampling. Conversely, plants displayed a higher fruits output per plant in deep and structured soil, in lowland areas, and in the garrigue and maquis habitats; the mean fruits output per plant increased as human trampling intensified. Human-induced threats are the main hazards threatening the remaining sardinian population. In particular, the major threats are linked to tourism and other outdoor activities (i.e. Human trampling), followed by the expansion of agricultural activities; all of these threats result in the disappearance of small localities and in reduced population size due to habitat loss and fragmentation. Our study indicates that h. Caput-felis should be considered as critically endangered (cr) at the regional level. Urgent measures should be undertaken to protect the remaining h. Caput-felis population in sardinia and a possible integrated strategy for the conservation and management consists of a combination of in situ and ex situ measures. In particular, greater emphasis should be given to minimizing the negative impacts of unsustainable tourism and recreation use, in order to exclude human trampling and to facilitate the plant recruitment process and population renewal. In addition, an ex situ conservation strategy must be implemented and the seeds collected could be used for future translocations in suitable areas. Moreover, considering the threats observed, a long-term monitoring programme must be developed to reveal changes in the species conservation status."
"71" "USING MARKET DATA AND EXPERT OPINION TO IDENTIFY OVEREXPLOITED SPECIES IN THE WILD BIRD TRADE" "the wildlife trade involves thousands of vertebrate species and now rivals habitat loss as an extinction driver in some regions. however, its impacts are poorly known because field monitoring of wild populations is expensive, localized, and requires specialized expertise. we examined whether market data and expert opinion could be used to identify bird species that may be at risk from the trade in indonesia. we asked expert ornithologists to characterize population trends of 38 species of indonesian birds, including many heavily traded species. they identified 14 species as having undergone population declines, all of which are regularly traded, and only two of which are restricted to old-growth forests. conversely, none of the untraded species was classified as declining. we combined the expert-derived population trends with data on changes in price and trade volume from indonesian wildlife markets to see if market data could identify declining species. we found that severely declining species have a significantly different price-volume signal than stable/increasing species; the former are characterized by increasing market prices and declining volumes. market data are much cheaper to collect than field data, roughly 1/30th the cost of a representative field study. we recommend a two-step approach to assess trade impacts on wild birds in southeast asia: coordinated market monitoring followed by field studies of species whose market signals indicate declining populations. our findings, however, require further validation with higher resolution wild population and market data. (c) 2015 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved."
"72" "The use of farmers' knowledge in coffee agroforestry management: implications for the conservation of tree biodiversity" "In agroforestry systems, the survival of shade trees is often the result of farmers' deliberate selection. Therefore, how communities generate knowledge and apply it to resource management practices influence the potential for biodiversity conservation of agroforestry systems. In this study, we investigated the use of knowledge by farmers to manage coffee (coffea arabica) agroforests and the consequences for the conservation of tree biodiversity and composition of surrounding forests. We interviewed 50 coffee farmers to investigate their shade tree preferences and sources of knowledge of the properties of shade trees and coffee management practices; we also conducted tree inventories in 31 coffee farms and 10 forest sites in la sepultura biosphere reserve in chiapas, mexico. Our results showed that farmers are modifying agroforests according to their knowledge and tree preferences, and that the resulting agroforest is lower in tree diversity and dominated by pioneer and farmers' preferred tree species as compared to forests. The principal sources of knowledge of management practices are external sources, such as governmental and non-governmental organizations, whereas the primary source of tree specific knowledge is empirical knowledge. We found that the higher proportion of pioneer trees relative to forest is mostly explained by farmers' tree selection decisions (63%) rather than as a byproduct of management practices (37%) that disturb the soil and open the canopy, altering light penetration and microclimate conditions. Based on interviews and tree inventories, we found that farmers gradually replace canopy trees of neutral and disliked species by preferred species, in particular inga spp. We found that external sources continue to promote the idea that inga spp. Trees bring significant benefits to coffee production in spite of a lack of scientific evidence to support this claim. This indicates that farmers are receptive to incorporate outside knowledge into their knowledge systems and adapt their resource management practices accordingly. Our findings highlight the importance of disseminating sound and clear scientific information to practitioners who work directly with farming communities to ensure that accurate and up-to-date information is being contributed to local knowledge systems."
"73" "Consequences of size-selective harvesting and changing climate on the pikeperch sander lucioperca in two large shallow north temperate lakes" "Under the prevailing warming and eutrophic conditions, the yields of the pikeperch sander lucioperca have increased in lake peipsi and lake vortsjarv in estonia. Yet, some decrease in the catches has been observed in recent years. We explored whether long-lasting size-selective harvesting of pikeperch together with changing climate factors might have triggered a truncation of the size-structure of the pikeperch population and resulted in the weakening of the population. Thus, we analysed long-term commercial fishery statistics (since 1931) and trawl sample data (since 1990) from the peipsi and vortsjarv lakes in terms of climate change and fishing pressure. Our study suggests that fisheries had direct negative effects on the size composition of the pikeperch population due to the nearly complete removal of the larger specimens. The truncation of the size-structure of the pikeperch population refers that cascading effect through the food web may occur as the abundance of inferior small fish has increased accordingly. Moreover, we found that climate changes influenced the pikeperch population in the same direction; large cohorts have become more frequent in the peipsi and vortsjarv lakes, and 0+ pikeperch are able to survive milder winters even without undergoing ontogenetic diet shifts. Consequently, overdensity of small fish have occurred, these effects might have serious implications for the economies of the poor rural communities that surround the lakes. The present fishing regulations seem to be inappropriate and this may lead to further population weakening and thus should be revised to provide effective protection for large. Specimens. However, continued use of active (towed) gear (e.g., danish seines) and the difficulties in enforcing fishery regulations under transboundary conditions complicate the implementation of policies that might result in more stable pikeperch populations in large estonian lakes. (C) 2015 elsevier b.v. All rights reserved."
"74" "Weak impact of tourism activities on biodiversity in a subterranean hotspot of endemism and its implications for the conservation of cave fauna" "La verna chamber (france, western pyrenees), the largest underground chamber in france, hosts 18 species of endemic hypogean invertebrates, all highly modified (troglobitic). It was recently opened for tourism activities. To estimate the risks incurred by its fauna in this new environmental context, we conducted a 3-year survey of the terrestrial fauna of the cave, focusing on the four steno-endemic species of beetles present. We established five sampling spots in the chamber that were monitored every 3 to 4months during 3years. Our results did not detect any negative impact of the tourism activity on cave biodiversity. Neither the number of observed specimens nor the species richness decreased in the control spots. The huge size of the chamber is assumed to prevent significant microclimatic changes and the presence of very large boulders and cracks is assumed to offer plenty of suitable spaces, which allow invertebrates to escape local disturbance and illumination. In spite of the high vulnerability of cave organisms, disturbance of cave habitats does not necessarily result in biodiversity decrease, if the cave disturbance is limited in duration, intensity, and spatial coverage with respect to the cave size."
"75" "Response Of Intertidal Sandy-Beach Macrofauna To Human Trampling: An Urban Vs. Natural Beach System Approach" "Sandy beaches are subjected to intense stressors, which are mainly derived from the increasing pattern of beach urbanization. These ecosystems are also a magnet for tourists, who prefer these locations as leisure and holiday destinations, and such activity further increases the factors that have an adverse effect on beaches. In the study reported here the effect of human trampling on macrofauna assemblages that inhabit intertidal areas of sandy beaches was assessed using a baci design. For this purpose, three contrasting sectors of the same beach were investigated: an urban area with a high level of visitors, a protected sector with a low density of users, and a transitional area with a high level of human occupancy. The physical variables were constant over time in each sector, whereas differences were found in the intensity of human use between sectors. Density variations and changes in the taxonomic structure of the macrofauna with time were shown by permanova analysis in the urban and transitional locations whereas the protected sector remained constant throughout the study period. The amphipod bathyporeia pelagica appears sensitive to human trampling pressure and the use of this species as a bioindicator for these types of impact is recommended. (C) 2014 elsevier ltd. All rights reserved."
"76" "ASSESSING BASELINE LEVELS OF CORAL HEALTH IN A NEWLY ESTABLISHED MARINE PROTECTED AREA IN A GLOBAL SCUBA DIVING HOTSPOT" "while coral reefs are increasingly threatened worldwide, they are also increasingly used for recreational activities. given the environmental and socio-economic significance of coral reefs, understanding the links between human activities and coral health and evaluating the efficacy of marine protected areas (mpas) as a management regime to prevent further deterioration are critically important. the aim of this study was to quantify indicators of coral health at sites inside and outside a newly rezoned mpa framework in the dive tourism hotspot of koh tao, thailand. we found that patterns in the health and diversity of coral communities one year on did not reflect the protected status conferred by newly zoned mpas, but instead reflected past history of recreational use around the island. sites characterised as past high-use sites had lower mean percent cover of hard corals overall and of corals in the typically disease- and disturbance-susceptible family acroporidae, but higher mean cover of species in the more weedy family agariciidae. past high use sites also had higher mean prevalence of infectious diseases and other indicators of compromised health. sites within the newly established mpas are currently subjected to higher levels of environmental and anthropogenic pressures, with sedimentation, algal overgrowth, feeding scars from drupella snails, and breakage particularly prevalent compared to sites in non-mpa areas. given the greater prevalence of these factors within protected sites, the capacity of the mpa framework to effectively prevent further deterioration of koh tao's reefs is unclear. nevertheless, our study constitutes a strong baseline for future long-term evaluations of the potential of mpas to maintain coral health and diversity on highly threatened reefs. (c) 2014 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved."
"77" "Ecosystem change and establishment of an invasive snail alter gastropod communities in long-lived lake malawi" "Biotic invasions can have far-reaching effects in isolated, eco-insular systems such as the african great lakes, certainly in synergy with other anthropogenic stressors that affect ecosystem stability. Interactions between invasive and indigenous taxa across trophic levels often tend to propagate throughout the ecosystem, but also those at the same trophic level may affect biodiversity. Here, we examine faunal interactions between an invasive asian morph of the cerithioidean gastropod melanoides tuberculata and indigenous gastropods in long-lived lake malawi. Studying quantitative samples, we document a negative spatial correlation between the established invader and endemic melanoides species, and positive ones between invasive and native m. Tuberculata, and between native melanoides and schistosome-transmitting bulinus. Comparison of modern and fossil samples indicates that melanoides communities have changed since the middle holocene from consisting predominantly of endemic taxa (95%) toward a dominance by non-endemics (80%). External evidence suggests that ecosystem change, such as increased sedimentation and eutrophication, and interactions between the invasive and endemic melanoides species are the most likely causes for these changes. More in-depth study of the benthic ecosystem is required to document interaction mechanisms better, but the invasive taxon is playing an important role in reshaping communities and diversity in lake malawi."
"78" "Does tourism impact aquatic insects in a high altitude stream?" "Human activity often has a negative effect on stream quality and the biodiversity of aquatic fauna. The present study investigated the distribution patterns of aquatic insect populations in the sentinela stream in biribiri state park, diamantina, minas gerais, brazil, and we correlated the patterns to possible impacts caused by tourists. We sampled the aquatic insect population few days before and few days after the holidays and monthly during the year. Fifteen groups of samples were taken from january through december 2011 at four different sites. For each site, three sub-samples were taken by drifting the entomological net and disturbing the substrate using the kick method. 3601 individuals were collected, and 8 orders and 41 families were identified. Environmental indices showed excellent water quality for sites 1 and 2, which are minimally affected by tourism and average water quality for sites 3 and 4, which are highly impacted by tourism. Three of the four holiday periods analyzed showed a significant decrease in insect abundance after the holiday. The richness and diversity of the aquatic insect fauna did not show seasonal fluctuations, despite differences in stream flow velocity during the dry and rainy periods. Our results indicated that the disturbances caused by tourism affect directly the diversity and abundance of aquatic insects in the sentinela stream. In addition, these insects were suitable for the evaluation of human impacts caused by tourism in the conservation of freshwater ecosystem."
"79" "Parasite host-switching from the invasive american red-eared slider, trachemys scripta elegans, to the native mediterranean pond turtle, mauremys leprosa, in natural environments" "The red-eared slider turtle, trachemys scripta elegans, is among the most over-exploited animals and is still exported annually from the usa all over the world. Once introduced into its new environment, feral populations may arise and pose threats to local biodiversity and ecosystem functioning. In france, it is in fact considered as a risk for the mediterranean pond turtle, mauremys leprosa, and the european pond turtle, emys orbicularis, as they may compete for resources and habitat. Freshwater turtles are also host to a variety of parasites including protozoans and helminths. When introduced turtles escape, parasites may spread to native species. The objective of this study was to document the extent of platyhelminth invasions from t. S. Elegans to natural m. Leprosa populations in northern spain and southern france and to evaluate the risks that parasite host-switching may pose on indigenous freshwater turtle species. From dna barcoding analysis based on the sequencing of the cytochrome c oxidase i gene, the bayesian tree and p-distance comparisons of closely related haplotypes revealed a greater polystome richness within m. Leprosa than expected, suggesting that host switching may take place in natural environments. Because these parasites most typically infest american turtles like chrysemys picta marginata and graptemys pseudogeographica in their natural home range and because parasites were also found within t. S. Elegans feral populations, it is suggested that the red-eared slider would serve as a carrier for a variety of not strictly host-specific polystomes that are transmitted to m. Leprosa throughout the south of france. The global trade in freshwater turtles thus provides opportunity for parasites to be transported to new destinations which could impact the physiology, behavior and survival of native turtle species."
"80" "Effects of livestock on guanaco lama guanicoe density, movements and habitat selection in a forest-grassland mosaic in tierra del fuego, chile" "Locally abundant ungulates often come into conflict with human activities. After a population collapse that reached its nadir in the 1970s, the guanaco lama guanicoe population in tierra del fuego, chile, recovered and is now in conflict with sheep ranching and commercial logging. We studied the effects of livestock density and environmental factors on guanaco abundance and spatial ecology, using seasonal counts and radio-telemetry in a private protected area (karukinka) and neighbouring ranches in a forest-grassland mosaic in tierra del fuego. Guanaco density was highest in low-elevation areas with more grassland cover and little snow accumulation in winter. In low-elevation areas, guanaco density decreased with increasing livestock density. Radio-tracked guanacos exhibited a partial migration pattern: two individuals migrated seasonally, selecting grasslands and avoiding forests mainly in summer, whereas six sedentary individuals used habitats according to their availability. Migratory guanacos spent the summer in karukinka and winter on nearby ranches. High sheep densities and poor range condition on the ranches reduce key forage resources available to guanacos and may promote use of forests by guanacos, affecting forest regeneration and increasing conflict with logging. Current guanaco harvest by loggers may fail to reduce the impact of guanacos on logged-forest regeneration if guanaco spatial ecology and sheep management are not considered. Our results provide insight into the interactions among guanacos, forests and livestock ranching, and may be used to reduce conflicts and guide conservation in the fuegian ecosystem."
"81" "Evaluating the genetic consequences of river fragmentation in lake sturgeon (acipenser fulvescens rafinesque, 1817) populations" "Fragmentation of formerly continuous habitats can have significant consequences on subpopulations in isolated fragments. This study examined the temporal genetic consequences of historical river fragmentation by hydroelectric dams on lake sturgeon (acipenser fulvescens rafinesque, 1817), using temporal samples from two ontario river systems. Temporal genetic analyses of samples from the ottawa (dammed) and kenogami (unregulated) river systems were used to (1) compare changes in genetic structure and diversity within and between free-flowing and regulated systems; (2) assess how impoundments have influenced the spatial and temporal genetic structure and diversity within these contrasting systems; and (3) estimate effective population sizes (n-e) in both rivers using temporal genetic estimators. Levels of genetic diversity did not differ between impounded and free-flowing rivers, nor did genetic diversity differ through time within a river system. Levels of genetic divergence over time were similarly minimal. We did, however, detect a 65% decline in effective population size in the impounded ottawa river over two generations. Moreover, over the same time period the ottawa river had substantially lower n-e estimates for lake sturgeon than the free-flowing kenogami river system. This study represents one of the first to observe genetic consequences of fragmentation on lake sturgeon. As such, this work reinforces the importance of maintaining or restoring habitat connectivity and availability for this migratory species, and mitigating other demographic threats that could compound, or be compounded by the effect of reduced genetic variation."
"82" "IMPACTS OF TOURISM HOTSPOTS ON VEGETATION COMMUNITIES SHOW A HIGHER POTENTIAL FOR SELF-PROPAGATION ALONG ROADS THAN HIKING TRAILS" "VEGETATION COMMUNITIES ALONG RECREATIONAL TRACKS MAY SUFFER FROM SUBSTANTIAL EDGE-EFFECTS THROUGH THE IMPACTS OF TRAMPLING, MODIFIED ENVIRONMENTAL CONDITIONS AND COMPETITION WITH SPECIES THAT BENEFIT FROM DISTURBANCE. WE ASSESSED IMPACTS ON TRACKSIDE VEGETATION BY COMPARING HIGH AND LOW USAGE TOURISM SITES AT A 1 -10 M DISTANCE FROM RECREATIONAL TRACKS IN A POPULAR ARID-LANDS TOURISM DESTINATION IN SOUTH AUSTRALIA. THE CENTRAL AIM WAS QUANTIFICATION OF THE STRENGTHS AND SPATIAL EXTENT OF TOURISM IMPACTS ALONG RECREATIONAL TRACKS WITH A QUALITATIVE COMPARISON OF ROADS AND TRAILS. TRACK-DISTANCE GRADIENTS WERE MOST PREVALENT AT HIGH USAGE SITES. THERE, SPECIES COMMUNITY COMPOSITION WAS ALTERED, TOTAL PLANT COVER DECREASED, NON-NATIVE SPECIES COVER INCREASED, PLANT DIVERSITY INCREASED OR DECREASED (DEPENDING ON THE DISTANCE) AND SOIL COMPACTION INCREASED TOWARDS RECREATIONAL TRACKS. ROADSIDE EFFECTS WERE GREATER AND MORE PERVASIVE THAN TRAILSIDE EFFECTS. FURTHER, PLANT DIVERSITY DID NOT CONTINUOUSLY INCREASE TOWARDS THE ROAD VERGE AS IT DID ALONG TRAILS BUT DROPPED SHARPLY IN THE IMMEDIATE ROAD SHOULDER WHICH INDICATED HIGH DISTURBANCE CONDITIONS THAT FEW SPECIES WERE ABLE TO TOLERATE. TO OUR KNOWLEDGE, WE ARE THE FIRST TO DEMONSTRATE THAT THE ACCESS MODE TO A RECREATION SITE INFLUENCES THE POTENTIAL OF CERTAIN IMPACTS, SUCH AS THE INCREASE OF NON-NATIVE SPECIES, TO SELF-PERPETUATE FROM THEIR POINTS OF INTRODUCTION TO DISJOINTED SITES WITH A PREDISPOSITION TO DISTURBANCE. DUE TO THIS PROPULSION OF IMPACTS, THE OVERALL SPATIAL EXTENT OF ROADSIDE IMPACTS WAS FAR GREATER THAN INITIALLY APPARENT FROM ASSESSMENTS AT THE ROAD VERGE. WE DISCUSS POSSIBLE MEANS OF MITIGATING THESE IMPACTS. (C) 2014 ELSEVIER LTD. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED."
"83" "Ecological Indicators For Assessing Management Effectiveness: A Case Study Of Horse Riding In An Alpine National Park" "Recreation activities and visitor use often have deleterious ecological impacts in protected areas. Management agencies then face the difficult task of providing recreation and tourism opportunities without compromising environmental values. This study assessed the success of efforts aimed at conserving alpine vegetation along the mt bogong massif in victoria, australia, through controlling the use of horses. Vegetation condition was assessed in 2001 to coinciding with restrictions on the use of horse riding on trails and then resurveyed 10years later. Sampling was undertaken in track plots that included the trail and surrounding vegetation, and control plots located away from the trail. There were significant differences in the amount of bare ground, the height of shrubs and ground layer vegetation, and shrub cover between track and control plots in 2001. Ten years later, track plots were recovering with reductions in bare ground and changes in vegetation, with improved ground layer vegetation height. Results show that vegetation condition has improved with restrictions of horse numbers. The indicators selected were sensitive to changes in vegetation condition and hence should be used for ongoing assessment of the effectiveness of this and similar management interventions."
"84" "Temporal changes in macrofauna as response indicator to potential human pressures on sandy beaches" "Sandy beaches are natural dynamic ecosystems, which are becoming worldwide increasingly disturbed by intensive human direct use, coastal development and erosive evolution. In this study, we have examined whether ten years of potential increased human pressures have resulted in significant changes in the macrofaunal assemblages' structure and composition of two mesotidal sandy beaches (cabedelo - urban beach, and quiaios - rural beach) on the european atlantic coast (portugal). Seasonal macrofauna collections were performed at both beaches in two different periods, one in 1999-2000 and another in 2010-2011. The physical variables did not change significantly in both beaches throughout the studied periods, however, the urban beach was subject to an increase of human pressures (tourism and shoreline modifications) over the 10-years interval considered when compared with the rural beach. The univariate community descriptors (total density, species richness and diversity) did not differ significantly among periods for the rural beach. In contrast, temporal differences were found at the most urbanised beach, principally regarding the abundances of the amphipod talitrus saltator and the isopod tylos europaeus, two of the most abundant species at both beaches. Permanova tests enhanced these temporal variations and the simper analysis attributed to these species the main differences found between periods in this beach. Since the physical environment was similar in both periods, the ecological changes were most likely attributed to the increased human pressures observed at the urban beach. Nevertheless, this study highlights the need of further robust and effective impact assessments and long-term studies to better discern between natural and human induced changes on sandy beaches. (C) 2014 elsevier ltd. All rights reserved."
"85" "THE IMPACT OF NATURE-BASED TOURISM ON BIRD COMMUNITIES: A CASE STUDY IN PALLAS-YLLASTUNTURI NATIONAL PARK" "nature-based tourism and recreation within and close to protected areas may have negative environmental impacts on biodiversity due to urban development, landscape fragmentation, and increased disturbance. we conducted a 3-year study of disturbances of birds induced by nature-based tourism over a recreational gradient in the pallas-yllastunturi national park and its surroundings in northern finland. bird assemblages were studied in highly disturbed areas close to the park (a ski resort, villages, and accommodation areas) and in campfire sites, along hiking routes (recreational areas) and in a forest (control area) within the park. compared with the forest, the disturbed urbanized areas had higher abundances of human-associated species, corvid species, cavity and building nesters, and edge species. the abundances of managed forest species were higher in campfire sites than in the forest. hiking trails and campfire sites did not have a negative impact on open-nesting bird species. the most likely reason for this outcome is that most campfire sites were situated at forest edges; this species group prefers managed forests and forest edge as a breeding habitat. the abundances of virgin forest species did not differ among the areas studied. the results of the study suggest that the current recreation pressure has not caused substantial changes in the forest bird communities within the national park. we suggest that the abundances of urban exploiter species could be used as indicators to monitor the level and changes of urbanization and recreational pressure at tourist destinations."
"86" "WATERBIRDS INCREASE MORE RAPIDLY IN RAMSARDESIGNATED WETLANDS THAN IN UNPROTECTED WETLANDS" "there is a general lack of information on how international conservation treaties affect biodiversity. the ramsar convention on the protection of internationally important wetlands is such an international conservation policy. it initiated the world-wide establishment of over 2000 protected areas currently covering more than 200 million ha. the convention came into force in 1975, but to date, it remains unknown whether it actually produces biodiversity benefits. we analysed 21years of survey data from a wide range of waterbird species in over 200 moroccan wetlands and examined whether ramsar designation as well as a national protected areas programme sites d'interetbiologique et ecologique (sibe) positively affected bird abundance. furthermore, habitat characteristics of wetlands in protected areas and control sites were compared and bird abundance was related to habitat characteristics. after designation, waterbird species richness and abundance increased more rapidly in ramsar wetlands than in non-designated wetlands. in sibe sites, increases in bird abundance were intermediate. waterbird abundance was significantly related to habitat characteristics, most importantly cover of water or bare ground. compared to control sites, ramsar sites had significantly higher cover of habitat types favoured by most waterbird species. it remained unclear, however, whether these differences were caused by conservation management or were already present prior to conservation designation. surprisingly, waterbird population trends in moroccan wetlands were markedly positive. trends were found to be related to precipitation levels in the sahel which may have caused changes in migratory strategies.synthesis and applications. this study demonstrates a powerful approach to systematically evaluating biodiversity responses to major international conservation policies. the results highlight that data on management and habitat quality are critical for reaching general conclusions about the effectiveness of conservation instruments. site managers or conservation authorities should be encouraged to collect standardized data on conservation actions to help interpret the mechanisms behind population responses and thus extrapolate findings beyond the study system. these findings represent a first small step towards unravelling the contribution of international conservation tools towards global policy objectives of halting the biodiversity decline."
"87" "Coastal impact ranking of small islands for conservation, restoration and tourism development: a case study of the bahamas" "An 11-year project to characterize, then assess, the health of coastal environments of the bahamas ranked a total of 238 sites on ten different islands. Satellite images and aerial photography were used to characterize coastal types (e.g. Substrate, geomorphology and wave energy to describe beaches, mangroves, or rocky shores), and then field assessments ranked four types of anthropogenic impacts that influence ecosystem function and coastal system services. The ranking of coastal health was based on physical alterations, destructive use of the coastal zone, coastal development and occurrence of invasive alien species (ias). The characterization and assessment methods were developed to serve as a rapid survey of coastal stability, biological diversity and quality of wildlife habitats. A system of coastal ranking is presented using numerical scores for four impact criteria along with terrestrial plant surveys to examine the intactness of the coastal environment. Some locations (exuma and great guana cay) were repeatedly monitored over time. Scores ranged from \"0\" for no human impacts or invasive coastal plants to \"20\" for highly altered with dredging, coastal development and loss of native vegetation. The mean impact rank for all sites across all islands was 5.7 +/- 4.3, which indicates \"medium\" ranks for at least two of the four human impact criteria. Only one uninhabited island (cay sal) had all coastal impacts scores of \"none\". Over 77% of all the sites surveyed had abundant occurrences of invasive alien species (ias) coastal plants. The australian pine (casuarina equisetifolia) was the more pervasive and the most widespread ias in the coastal environment, and its abundance increased in all sites that were re-surveyed over time. Degradation of coastal function can signal greater risks to coastal property, flooding events or loss of wildlife populations. The coastal impact ranking protocol presented here helps identify target areas for conservation as well as identify areas with the greatest feasibility for coastal restoration. (C) 2014 elsevier ltd. All rights reserved."
"88" "Assessment of bird response to the migratory bird habitat initiative using weather-surveillance radar" "In response to the deepwater horizon oil spill in spring 2010, the natural resources conservation service implemented the migratory bird habitat initiative (mbhi) to provide temporary wetland habitat for migrating and wintering waterfowl, shorebirds, and other birds along the northern gulf of mexico via managed flooding of agricultural lands. We used weather-surveillance radar to conduct broad regional assessments of bird response to mbhi activities within the mississippi alluvial valley and the west gulf coastal plain. Across both regions, birds responded positively to mbhi management by exhibiting greater relative bird densities within sites relative to pre-management conditions in prior years and relative to surrounding non-flooded agricultural lands. Bird density at mbhi sites was generally greatest during winter for both regions. Unusually high flooding in the years prior to implementation of the mbhi confounded detection of overall changes in remotely sensed soil wetness across sites. The magnitude of bird response at mbhi sites compared to prior years and to non-flooded agricultural lands was generally related to the surrounding landscape context: proximity to areas of high bird density, amount of forested wetlands, emergent marsh, non-flooded agriculture, or permanent open water. However, these relationships varied in strength and direction between regions and seasons, a finding which we attribute to differences in seasonal bird composition and broad regional differences in landscape configuration and composition. We detected greater increases in relative bird use at sites in closer proximity to areas of high bird density during winter in both regions. Additionally, bird density was greater during winter at sites with more emergent marsh in the surrounding landscape. Thus, bird use of managed wetlands could be maximized by enrolling lands located near areas of known bird concentration and within a mosaic of existing wetlands. Weather-radar observations provide strong evidence that mbhi sites located inland from coastal wetlands impacted by the oil spill provided wetland habitat used by a variety of birds."
"89" "Reduced dairy grassland yields in central norway after a single springtime grazing event by pink-footed geese" "Populations of migratory geese overwintering in europe have risen rapidly during recent decades, leading to increased pressure on available forage resources and more grazing on agricultural lands. Farmers throughout europe have complained of yield losses due to goose grazing. In spring, the svalbard-breeding population of pink-footed goose (anser brachyrhynchus) migrates through specific staging sites in norway, where the geese graze on dairy grasslands and other types of agricultural lands in the early growing season. Despite this, little is known of the impacts of goose grazing on hay biomass and quality in norway. An experiment using exclosures to prevent goose grazing, and plots that were open for grazing, was established in central norway to test the effects of variable grazing intensity on dairy grassland yields. A single spring-grazing event had severe negative impact at the site with the highest grazing intensity, leading to a 25% reduction in forage yield (milk feed units per hectare) as compared to ungrazed areas. The impacts on the sites with lower grazing intensity were more subtle. The overall reduction (across all sites) of biomass yield was 26%. Forage quality, in terms of milk feed units per kg, was not much affected. Grazing increased the proportion and diversity of weeds, as evidenced by a 49% increase of the shannon biodiversity index, and there was a 1.3% decrease in the proportion of herbage biomass of sown species. Hence, we have confirmed farmer reports on yield losses, gaining an increased understanding of the overall farmer costs associated with goose grazing in this northern latitude region."
"90" "International trade of cites listed bird species in china" "Commercial trade of wild birds may devastate wild bird populations. Convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites) controls the trade of wild species listed in its appendices to avoid these species being threatened by international trade. China used to be one of the major trading countries with significant bird trade with foreign countries; on the other hand, china is a country with unique avian fauna, many important bird areas and critically endangered bird species. What is the role of the country in world wild bird trade? What kind of insights can we extract from trade records for improving future management of wild bird trade in the country? We retrieved and analyzed international trade records of the cites listed bird species of china from 1981 to 2010 from the cites trade database maintained by united nations environment program and world conservation monitoring centre (unep-wcmc). We found that: (1) international trade of live birds in china peaked during the late 1990s, then decreased to the level before the surge of trade in a few years, the trade dynamics of wild birds may be affected by governmental policy and the outbreak of avian influenza during the period. (2) most frequently traded cites appendix listed birds in china were parrots, most of which were exotic species to the country. (3) birds were mainly traded for commercial purpose. Exotic birds in trade were mainly captive-bred while the most chinese birds traded internationally were captured from the wild. Since many bird species in international trade are threatened to extinction, china should take stricter measures on importing of wild-captured birds and should collaborate with the countries of original in the international bird trade to avoid unsustainable harvesting of wild birds. It is urgent for china to carry out population surveys on those domestic bird species once in significant international trade and to make better conservation decisions based on population status of those birds. In addition, more scientific researchers should be encouraged to participate in the wildlife trade management to avoid misreporting trade data or biased analyses of the trade records."
"91" "Conventional oil and gas development alters forest songbird communities" "Energy extraction within forest habitat is increasing at a rapid rate throughout eastern north america from the combined presence of conventional oil and gas, shale gas, and wind energy. We examined the effects of conventional oil and gas development on forest habitat including amounts of core and edge forest, the abundance of songbird species and guilds, species diversity, and community similarity within and between mixed hardwood and oak forest types at both individual wells (local scale) and at the 25-ha scale at differing levels of well density: reference (0wells/site, 0wells/km(2)), low (1-5wells/site, 4-20 wells/km(2)), and high (10-15wells/site, 40-60wells/km(2)). Amount of cleared area, length of roads, and amount of edge increased with increasing well density, whereas amount of core forest declined. At high well densities, 85% of the study site remained forested, but the mean amount of core forest declined from 68% to 2%. Specific changes to forest structure associated with oil and gas development included decreases in basal area and canopy cover within 20m of individual wells and with increasing well density. Of 19 species analyzed, 5 species, including ovenbird (seiurus aurocapilla), blackburnian warbler (setophaga fusca), and black-throated green warbler (setophaga virens), had lower abundance at well sites than reference sites at either the local or 25-ha scale. Six species including american robin (turdus migratorius), chestnut-sided warbler (setophaga pensylvanica), and brown-headed cowbird (molothrus ater) were more abundant at well than reference sites. Eight species did not differ in abundance between well and reference sites. All 3 songbird guilds showed distinct patterns of abundance in relation to habitat differences resulting from oil and gas development that were consistent with known fragmentation effects. Forest interior species were less abundant at well sites than reference sites and showed a declining trend with increasing well density. In contrast, the guilds of early successional species and synanthropic species were more abundant at well sites than reference sites as was species richness (alpha diversity). Avian communities differed between northern hardwood and oak forest types at reference sites but became more similar when wells were present at both scales, suggesting biotic homogenization or a loss of beta diversity occurred as similar species were attracted to well sites in both forest types. The bird communities associated with northern hardwoods and oaks still retained their unique characteristics at low well densities but became similar at high well densities suggesting a threshold somewhere between the low and high well density sites. Consequently, we recommend that if well development is to occur in extensively forested landscapes, conventional oil and gas well development be limited to a maximum of 20wells/km(2) to minimize impacts to forest birds. (C) 2014 the wildlife society."
"92" "VANISHING CLAMS ON AN IBERIAN BEACH: LOCAL CONSEQUENCES AND GLOBAL IMPLICATIONS OF ACCELERATING LOSS OF SHELLS TO TOURISM" "multi-decadal increase in shell removal by tourists, a process that may accelerate degradation of natural habitats, was quantified via two series of monthly surveys, conducted thirty years apart (1978-1981 and 2008-2010) in one small embayment on the mediterranean coast of the iberian peninsula. over the last three decades, the local tourist arrivals have increased almost three-fold (2.74), while the area has remained unaffected by urban encroachment and commercial fisheries. during the same time interval the abundance of mollusk shells along the shoreline decreased by a comparable factor (2.62) and was significantly and negatively correlated with tourist arrivals (r = -0.52). the strength of the correlation increased when data were restricted to months with high tourist arrivals (r = -0.72). in contrast, the maximum monthly wave energy (an indirect proxy for changes in rate of onshore shell transport) was not significantly correlated with shell abundance (r = 0.10). similarly, rank dominance of common species, drilling predation intensity, and body size-frequency distribution patterns have all remained stable over recent decades. a four-fold increase in global tourist arrivals over the last 30 years may have induced a comparable worldwide acceleration in shell removal from marine shorelines, resulting in multiple, currently unquantifiable, habitat changes such as increased beach erosion, changes in calcium carbonate recycling, and declines in diversity and abundance of organisms, which are dependent on shell availability."
"93" "Carnivore and herbivore densities in the immediate aftermath of ethno-political conflict: the case of manas national park, india" "Many biodiversity hotspots experience high political volatility and armed conflicts. But their impacts on wildlife conservation are poorly understood. In this study we analyze the influence of fifteen years of armed conflict and subsequent peacetime interventions on wildlife populations in manas national park, india. Camera trapping and line-transect surveys were carried out to estimate the densities of carnivores and herbivores respectively. Using relative abundance index, the estimated densities of the three large felids were: tiger, panthera tigris (1.86 animals/100 km(2)), leopard, panthera pardus (1.68 animals/100 km(2)), clouded leopard, neofelis nebulosa (0.58 animals/100 km(2)). Among the ungulates, which are the principal prey species of tigers, wild-buffalo, bubalus arnee was most abundant (22.88 +/- s. E. 11.63 animals/km(2)). The combined density of the ungulate species was 42.02 animals/km(2). Our data and observations from the field indicate that except for the rhino, rhinoceros unicornis, most wildlife species survived the conflict. Relationships between ungulate and tiger abundances indicate that manas can support more tigers than are currently present. The ongoing restoration efforts seem to have an uplifting effect on the overall profile of the park, particularly on tourism and in engaging local communities. Our baseline estimates for the large cats and their prey species will enable future evaluation of the recovery process with respect to change in species abundance over time."
"94" "Assessing the importance of human activities for the establishment of the invasive poa annua in antarctica" "Because of its harsh environmental conditions and remoteness, antarctica is often considered to be at low risk of plant invasion. However, an increasing number of reports have shown the presence and spread of non-native plants in antarctica; it is therefore important to study which factors control the invasion process in this ecosystem. Here, we assessed the role of different human activities on the presence and abundance of the invasive poa annua. In addition, we performed a reciprocal transplant experiment in the field, and a manipulative experiment of germination with p. Annua and the natives colobanthus quitensis and deschampsia antarctica, in order to unravel the effects of physical soil disturbance on the establishment and survival of p. Annua. We found a positive correlation between abundance of p. Annua and level of soil disturbance, and that survival of p. Annua was 33% higher in sites with disturbed soil than non-disturbed. Finally, we found that disturbance conditions increased germination for p. Annua, whereas for native species germination in experimentally disturbed soil was either unchanged or reduced compared to undisturbed soil. Our results indicate that human activities that modify abiotic soil characteristics could play an important role in the abundance of this invasive species. If the current patterns of human activities are maintained in antarctica, the establishment success and spread of p. Annua could increase, negatively affecting native flora."
"95" "Effects of an alien invasive gastropod on native benthic assemblages in coastal lakes of the isimangaliso wetland park, south africa" "Tarebia granifera (lamarck, 1822) is one of the most widespread alien invasive molluscs around the world and was accidentally introduced into south africa via the aquarium trade during the 1990s. It has invaded and spread in the estuaries and lakes of the isimangaliso wetland park, where it is often present in extremely high densities. There are no studies directly addressing the impact of t. Granifera on benthic fauna of invaded habitats in south africa. This study aimed to compile useful historic and current benthic community and environmental data for a comparison between pre- and post-invasion scenarios involving t. Granifera in the shallow water habitats (depth < 2.6 metres) of different lakes in the isimangaliso wetland park. Results provide evidence that t. Granifera can dominate and thus significantly affect native invertebrate assemblage composition. Under certain environmental conditions, some native gastropod species can be displaced by t. Granifera. However, t. Granifera does not appear to markedly affect the biodiversity of aquatic coastal ecosystems. This study serves as a baseline for future research. There is a need for empirical approaches, addressing the extent and specific mechanisms of the ecological impact of t. Granifera."
"96" "Sustained impacts of a hiking trail on changing windswept feldmark vegetation in the australian alps" "Damage to vegetation from tourism and recreation includes the impacts of hiking trails, which may favour trampling-tolerant plants over those that are more sensitive to this type of disturbance. Toassess how continued use of a hiking trail coupled with changes in local climate affect a rare australian alpine plant community, we compared plant composition at different distances from a trail in 2013 during wetter conditions with that 10 years prior during a drought in 2003. In both years, only a few trampling-tolerant graminoids and cushion plants were found on the trail surface, which runs along the ridgeline. Species richness and cover in both surveys generally increased with distance from the trail, but there were differences between the windward and leeward sides of the trail. This included increased abundance of some species but continued disruption of shrub succession on the leeward side of the trail. There was an overall increase in species richness between the two surveys, and changes in the abundance of many species independent of trampling effects, possibly reflecting the more favourable/wetter conditions for plant growth in 2013. These results suggest that changes in climatic conditions can affect community composition, but that this has not negated the impact of the hiking trail on this rare community. With average temperatures increasing, and snow cover declining in the australian alps, it is likely that there will be even more changes in the windswept feldmark, including the potential colonisation of these ridges by more competitive species, such as graminoids, at the expense of the dominant shrub and some herbs that are already adversely affected by trampling. Longer term monitoring of this rare community is imperative to better understand community processes in relation to the impacts of trail use and climate change. Management options to reduce these impacts are discussed."
"97" "Including the introduction of exotic species in life cycle impact assessment: the case of inland shipping" "While the ecological impact of anthropogenically introduced exotic species is considered a major threat for biodiversity and ecosystems functioning, it is generally not accounted for in the environmental life cycle assessment (lca) of products. In this article, we propose a framework that includes exotic species introduction in an lca context. We derived characterization factors for exotic fish species introduction related to the transport of goods across the rhine-main-danube canal. These characterization factors are expressed as the potentially disappeared fraction (pdf) of native freshwater fish species in the rivers rhine and danube integrated over space and time per amount of goods transported (pdf.m(3).Yr.kg(-1)). Furthermore, we quantified the relative importance of exotic fish species introduction compared to other anthropogenic stressors in the freshwater environment (i.e., eutrophication, ecotoxicity, greenhouse gases, and water consumption) for transport of goods through the rhine-main-danube waterway. We found that the introduction of exotic fish species contributed to 70-85% of the total freshwater ecosystem impact, depending on the distance that goods were transported. Our analysis showed that it is relevant and feasible to include the introduction of exotic species in an lca framework. The proposed framework can be further extended by including the impacts of other exotic species groups, types of water bodies and pathways for introduction."
"98" "MORTALITY OF MIGRATORY BIRDS FROM MARINE COMMERCIAL FISHERIES AND OFFSHORE OIL AND GAS PRODUCTION IN CANADA" "there is an imminent need for conservation and best-practice management efforts in marine ecosystems where global-scale declines in the biodiversity and biomass of large vertebrate predators are increasing and marine communities are being altered. we examine two marine-based industries that incidentally take migratory birds in canada: (1) commercial fisheries, through bycatch, and (2) offshore oil and gas exploration, development, and production. we summarize information from the scientific literature and technical reports and also present new information from recently analyzed data to assess the magnitude and scope of mortality. fisheries bycatch was responsible for the highest levels of incidental take of migratory bird species; estimated combined take in the longline, gillnet, and bottom otter trawl fisheries within the atlantic, including the gulf of st. lawrence, and pacific regions was 2679 to 45,586 birds per year. for the offshore oil and gas sector, mortality estimates ranged from 188 to 4494 deaths per year due to the discharge of produced waters resulting in oil sheens and collisions with platforms and vessels; however these estimates for the oil and gas sector are based on many untested assumptions. in spite of the uncertainties, we feel levels of mortality from these two industries are unlikely to affect the marine bird community in canada, but some effects on local populations from bycatch are likely. further research and monitoring will be required to: (1) better estimate fisheries-related mortality for vulnerable species and populations that may be impacted by local fisheries, (2) determine the effects of oil sheens from produced waters, and attraction to platforms and associated mortality from collisions, sheens, and flaring, so that better estimates of mortality from the offshore oil and gas sector can be obtained, and (3) determine impacts associated with accidental spills, which are not included in our current assessment. with a better understanding of the direct mortality of marine birds from industry, appropriate mitigation and management actions can be implemented. cooperation from industry for data collection, research to fill knowledge gaps, and implementation of mitigation approaches will all be needed to conserve marine birds in canada."
"99" "Vegetation Moderates Impacts Of Tourism Usage On Bird Communities Along Roads And Hiking Trails" "Bird communities inhabiting ecosystems adjacent to recreational tracks may be adversely affected by disturbance from passing tourism traffic, vehicle-related mortality, habitat alteration and modified biotic relationships such as the increase of strong competitors. This study investigated the effects of tourist usage of roads vs. Hiking trails on bird communities in gorges of the flinders ranges, a popular south australian tourist destination in the arid-lands. High tourist usage along roads decreased the individual abundance and species richness of birds relative to low usage trails. The decrease in species richness, though less pronounced, also occurred at high-usage sites along trails. Changes in the species response to recreational disturbance/impacts varied depending on the ecology of the species. Bigger, more competitive birds with a generalist diet were overrepresented at high-usage sites along roads and trails. Species using microhabitats in lower vegetation layers were more sensitive. However, structural and floristic complexity of vegetation was a more important factor influencing bird abundance than tourist usage. Sites with a better developed shrub and tree layer sustained higher species abundance and richer communities. Importantly, vegetation qualities moderated the negative effect of high usage on the individual abundance of birds along roads, to the extent that such an effect was absent at sites with the best developed shrub and tree layer. To protect avifauna along recreational tracks in arid-lands gorges, we recommend the closure of some gorges or sections for vehicle or any access. Further, open space particularly for camping needs to be minimized as it creates areas of high tourist usage with modified habitat that provides birds with little buffer from disturbance. (C) 2013 elsevier ltd. All rights reserved."
"100" "BAT CONSERVATION IN CHINA: SHOULD PROTECTION OF SUBTERRANEAN HABITATS BE A PRIORITY?" "SUBTERRANEAN ENVIRONMENTS ARE ESSENTIAL FOR THE SURVIVAL OF MANY BAT SPECIES AND OTHER CAVE FAUNA BUT THESE PLACES ARE SUBJECT TO INCREASING HUMAN DISTURBANCE. TO EXAMINE THE SIGNIFICANCE OF SUBTERRANEAN HABITATS FOR THE CONSERVATION OF BATS IN CHINA WE SURVEYED BAT SPECIES IN 225 UNDERGROUND SITES DURING 2003-2011. OUR RESULTS SHOW THAT 77% OF BAT SPECIES IN CHINA, INCLUDING 30 NATIONALLY ENDANGERED OR VULNERABLE SPECIES AND NINE ENDEMIC SPECIES, ROOST IN CAVES AND OTHER SUBTERRANEAN HABITATS. THE NUMBER OF SPECIES IN OCCUPIED ROOSTS WAS 1-15. ALMOST 90% OF THE ROOSTS SURVEYED CONTAINED SIGNS OF HUMAN DISTURBANCE, MOST OF WHICH WAS FROM RECREATIONAL ACTIVITIES. ONE HUNDRED AND TWENTY-ONE ROOSTS MERIT SPECIAL CONCERN BECAUSE THEY HARBOUR >= 6 SPECIES OR > 1,000 INDIVIDUALS, OR SPECIES OF SPECIAL CONCERN (THREATENED OR ENDEMIC SPECIES). GENERALLY, LARGER ROOSTS SUPPORT MORE SPECIES AND A GREATER ABUNDANCE OF BATS THAN SMALLER ROOSTS BUT THERE IS NO DIRECT CORRELATION BETWEEN THE PRESENCE OF SPECIES OF SPECIAL CONCERN AND ROOST SIZE. DISUSED TOURIST CAVES HAVE SIGNIFICANTLY MORE BAT SPECIES THAN OTHER TYPES OF ROOSTS. OUR DATA DEMONSTRATE THAT ROOST DISTURBANCE BY RECREATIONAL ACTIVITIES HAS PRONOUNCED DETRIMENTAL EFFECTS ON THE NUMBER OF BAT SPECIES AND THE PRESENCE OF SPECIES OF SPECIAL CONCERN. WE DISCUSS THE SOCIAL, ECONOMIC AND POLITICAL ISSUES THAT COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT BAT CONSERVATION IN CAVES IN CHINA, AND WE RECOMMEND THAT PROTECTION OF SUBTERRANEAN HABITATS SHOULD BE A HIGH PRIORITY FOR BAT CONSERVATION."
"101" "NON-NATIVE PLANTS DISRUPT DUAL PROMOTION OF NATIVE ALPHA AND BETA DIVERSITY" "NON-NATIVE SPECIES CAN ALTER PATTERNS OF SPECIES DIVERSITY AT MULTIPLE SPATIAL SCALES, BUT THE PROCESSES THAT UNDERLIE MULTI-SCALE EFFECTS REMAIN UNCLEAR. HERE WE SHOW THAT NON-NATIVE SPECIES REDUCE NATIVE DIVERSITY AT MULTIPLE SCALES THROUGH SIMULTANEOUS DISRUPTION OF TWO PROCESSES OF NATIVE COMMUNITY ASSEMBLY: SPECIES IMMIGRATION, WHICH ENHANCES ALPHA DIVERSITY, AND COMMUNITY DIVERGENCE, WHICH ENHANCES BETA DIVERSITY. COMMUNITY DIVERGENCE REFERS TO THE PROCESS IN WHICH LOCAL COMMUNITIES DIVERGE OVER TIME IN SPECIES COMPOSITION BECAUSE THE HISTORY OF SPECIES IMMIGRATION AND, CONSEQUENTLY, THE WAY SPECIES AFFECT ONE ANOTHER WITHIN COMMUNITIES ARE VARIABLE AMONG COMMUNITIES. CONTINUOUS EXPERIMENTAL REMOVAL OF SPECIES OVER FOUR YEARS OF FLOODPLAIN SUCCESSION REVEALED THAT, WHEN NON-NATIVE SPECIES WERE EXCLUDED, STOCHASTIC VARIATION IN THE TIMING OF A DOMINANT NATIVE SPECIES' ARRIVAL ALLOWED LOCAL COMMUNITIES TO DIVERGE, THEREBY ENHANCING BETA DIVERSITY, WITHOUT COMPROMISING PROMOTION OF ALPHA DIVERSITY BY SPECIES IMMIGRATION. IN CONTRAST, WHEN NON-NATIVE SPECIES WERE ALLOWED TO ENTER EXPERIMENTAL PLOTS, THEY NOT ONLY REDUCED NATIVE ALPHA DIVERSITY BY LIMITING IMMIGRATION, BUT ALSO DIMINISHED THE DOMINANT NATIVE SPECIES' ROLE IN ENHANCING NATIVE BETA DIVERSITY. OUR RESULTS HIGHLIGHT THE IMPORTANCE OF COMMUNITY ASSEMBLY AND SUCCESSION FOR UNDERSTANDING MULTI-SCALE EFFECTS OF NON-NATIVE SPECIES."
"102" "Balancing the benefits of ecotourism and development: the effects of visitor trail-use on mammals in a protected area in rapidly developing china" "Despite economic benefits, particularly in developing countries, ecotourism can have unintended negative consequences for wildlife conservation in protected areas (pas). We report the effects of tourist trail-type and -use on the incidence of mammal fieldsigns in a pa in central china. Surveys conducted adjacent to five categories of trail-type and fieldsigns were scored for three duplicates of four 0.5 km transects (=60 transects). Higher trail use along more major trail types were associated with significantly fewer fieldsigns along transects close to trails, compared with more distant transects. Fieldsign scores along transects adjacent to less used, unpaved trails were far less affected. In multiple-regression models, species and guilds exhibited different fieldsign score responses to trail type and use. In general, a paucity of larger mammal (>15 kg) fieldsigns was associated primarily with greater trail use, whereas fieldsign scores for smaller mammals were associated more strongly with human-modified forest types. As international demand for nature-based tourism continues to grow it is important to evaluate openly the consequences of providing public access to protected areas while conserving biodiversity. (C) 2013 elsevier ltd. All rights reserved."
"103" "Globalization of the cashmere market and the decline of large mammals in central asia" "As drivers of terrestrial ecosystems, humans have replaced large carnivores in most areas, and human influence not only exerts striking ecological pressures on biodiversity at local scales but also has indirect effects in distant corners of the world. We suggest that the multibillion dollar cashmere industry creates economic motivations that link western fashion preferences for cashmere to land use in central asia. This penchant for stylish clothing, in turn, encourages herders to increase livestock production which affects persistence of over 6 endangered large mammals in these remote, arid ecosystems. We hypothesized that global trade in cashmere has strong negative effects on native large mammals of deserts and grassland where cashmere-producing goats are raised. We used time series data, ecological snapshots of the biomass of native and domestic ungulates, and ecologically and behaviorally based fieldwork to test our hypothesis. In mongolia increases in domestic goat production were associated with a 3-fold increase in local profits for herders coexisting with endangered saiga(saiga tatarica).That increasing domestic grazing pressure carries fitness consequences was inferred on the basis of an approximately 4-fold difference in juvenile recruitment among blue sheep(pseudois nayaur)in trans-himalayan india. Across 7 study areas in mongolia, india, and china's tibetan plateau, native ungulate biomass is now<5% that of domestic species. Such trends suggest ecosystem degradation and decreased capacity for the persistence of native species, including at least 8 asian endemic species: saiga, chiru(pantholops hodgsoni), bactrian camel(camelus bactrianus), snow leopard(panthera uncia), khulan(equus hemionus), kiang(e. Kiang), takhi(e. Przewalski), and wild yak(bos mutus). Our results suggest striking yet indirect and unintended actions that link trophic-level effects to markets induced by the trade for cashmere."
"104" "Effects of recreational use on branchiopod egg and ephippia density, black rock desert-high rock canyon emigrant trails national conservation area, nevada, usa" "Numerous plays playas occur on valley floors of endorehic basins in arid regions of the western usa. Their openness makes them attractive for hiking, vehicle travel, military, and other uses when dry. Branchiopod crustacean dormant egg banks survive in these systems and are a rich food resource for migrating birds. Brachniecta gigas lynch, 1937, b. Mackini dexter, 1956, and lepiduras lemmoni holmes, 1895, and moina cf. Macrocopa (straus, 1820) occur in the black rock desert playa, nevada, usa. We collected playa egg bank samples to determine effects of human use in three studies. We compared intact egg and ephippia density in virgin playa areas with: 1) a heavily used vehicle track, and 2) recreational camping and vehicle activity mitigated by dust abatement in black rock city (site of the burning man festival). We also attempted to quantify changes in intact egg and ephippia density through repeated vehicle travel over a track on virgin playa. We found no observed decrease in intact egg or ephippia density attributed to incrementally increased vehicle travel over virgin playa, which may be attributed to strength of the playa substrate matrix. Differences in intact egg and ephippia density were substantially lower in heavily used vehicle tracks than in adjacent playa, but differences were not statistically significant. Density of intact eggs and ephippia in black rock city were lower following the festival, but differences were statistically significant only for eggs in camping areas and not roads. Weak effects observed on these roads may be attributed to dust abatement that maintained substrate density."
"105" "Trade, harvest, and conservation of caterpillar fungus (ophiocordyceps sinensis) in the himalayas" "Unsustainable trade in wildlife is regarded as a major driver of biodiversity loss and ecosystem degradation. Unregulated wildlife trade propels over-exploitation of species, resulting in population declines, and often in combination with other factors may ultimately extirpate species from their natural habitats. Concern about the impacts of trade on biodiversity has largely focused on flagship animal species. Here, we report on the impact of trade on natural populations of the world's most expensive biological resource, a unique caterpillar fungus (ophiocordyceps sinensis). Based on interviews with 203 harvesters and 28 traders, and focus group discussions in dolpa, nepal, we quantify the amount of harvest and trade. After legalization of trade in nepal in 2001, trade volume increased persistently, reaching a peak of 2442.4 kg in 2009 and subsequently declining to 1170.8 kg in 2011. The local market price has increased by up to 2300% over the last 10 years. However, mean annual harvest declined from 260.66 +/- 212.21 pieces per person in 2006 to 125.82 +/- 96.84 pieces per person in 2010. Our analysis of harvesters' perceptions of resource abundance and sustainability shows that virtually all harvesters (95.1%) believe the availability of the caterpillar fungus in the pastures to be declining, and 67% consider current harvesting practices to be unsustainable. (C) 2012 elsevier ltd. All rights reserved."
"106" "Visitor impact on rocky shore communities of qeshm island, the persian gulf, iran" "The influence of visitors on macroinvertebrates of rocky intertidal shores was investigated in southern coasts of the qeshm island, the persian gulf, iran. Qeshm island located at the strait of hormuz, with an area of 1,491 km(2), is the largest island in the region. This island consists of a number of important natural habitat types including creeks, mangroves, corals, and sandy, muddy, and rocky shores that accommodate diverse marine flora and fauna communities. Two rocky shores were selected at the touristic beaches being visited regularly, and further two control locations selected at pristine shores. Intertidal macroinvertebrates were collected from six microhabitats including rock platforms, cobbles, boulders, crevices, sea walls, and rock pools during two different periods representing high and low tourist seasons. Species richness, density, and assemblage structure in heavily visited shores were compared with that of control locations. Striped barnacles (balanus amphitrite) were present on platforms of all locations, thus the changes in their size were used as the obvious contrast associated with visitor's impact. A total of 70 macroinvertebrate species from 11 phyla were recorded. Significant differences were detected in taxonomic richness, density, and assemblage structure of macroinvertebrates between heavily visited and pristine shores, suggesting that macroinvertebrates were adversely affected by visitors' impact at heavily visited shores. The test of changes in species richness, density, and assemblage structure from high to low seasons yielded mixed results. The significant changes in density and assemblage structure from high to low seasons were only observed in one heavily visited shore. A significant reduction in size of striped barnacles was observed only in one heavily visited shore. The opportunistic or fugitive species (e.g., small macroalgae and barnacles) were dominant macroinvertebrates on heavily visited shores indicating early succession stage. The results presented here showed that macroinvertebrates were adversely affected by human activities in subtropical rocky shore."
"107" "Arid vegetation in disequilibrium with livestock grazing: evidence from long-term exclosures" "In recent decades, the conventional equilibrium paradigm for explaining rangeland vegetation dynamics has been challenged. Proponents of an alternative non-equilibrium paradigm argue that in variable rangeland environments, external climatic events are critical to vegetation dynamics and there is little opportunity for plantherbivore interactions to reach equilibrium. Understanding which paradigm more effectively describes an ecosystem has important consequences for management. In particular, some authors have argued that a focus on reducing stocking rates in non-equilibrium systems may be futile, and management should be opportunistic in response to unpredictable rainfall events. We measured herbaceous biomass and plant species richness and abundance at five 14-year exclosures on innamincka regional reserve. Four were situated in the dunefields land system, and one on the cooper creek floodplain. We did not detect any significant differences between grazed and ungrazed treatments in total species richness or abundance, life form richness or abundance, or herbaceous biomass. Only one species, portulaca oleracea, showed differences in abundance between treatments at more than one site, but the direction of these differences was not consistent. These results suggest that the non-equilibrium paradigm more accurately describes vegetation dynamics in the dunefields and floodplains of north-eastern south australia. It is possible that some species had been lost from the study area prior to the establishment of the exclosures, thereby precluding recovery with protection from grazing; however, a regional analysis of the flora reveals little evidence of this. We argue that the dominance of ephemeral species confers resilience by limiting the development of strong feedbacks between grazing intensity and vegetation dynamics. Current grazing practices seem consistent with the conservation of plant species diversity across the dunefields and floodplains. Future studies should focus on the impacts of cattle grazing on areas of the landscape dominated by palatable perennials, as well as the small number of rare and potentially grazing-sensitive species identified."
"108" "Recurrent jellyfish blooms are a consequence of global oscillations" "A perceived recent increase in global jellyfish abundance has been portrayed as a symptom of degraded oceans. This perception is based primarily on a few case studies and anecdotal evidence, but a formal analysis of global temporal trends in jellyfish populations has been missing. Here, we analyze all available long-term datasets on changes in jellyfish abundance across multiple coastal stations, using linear and logistic mixed models and effect-size analysis to show that there is norobust evidence for a global increase in jellyfish. Although there has been a small linear increase in jellyfish since the 1970s, this trend was unsubstantiated by effect-size analysis that showed no difference in the proportion of increasing vs. Decreasing jellyfish populations over all time periods examined. Rather, the strongest nonrandom trend indicated jellyfish populations undergo larger, worldwide oscillations with an approximate 20-y periodicity, including a rising phase during the 1990s that contributed to the perception of a global increase in jellyfish abundance. Sustained monitoring is required over the next decade to elucidate with statistical confidence whether the weak increasing linear trend in jellyfish after 1970 is an actual shift in the baseline or part of an oscillation. Irrespective of the nature of increase, given the potential damage posed by jellyfish blooms to fisheries, tourism, and other human industries, our findings foretell recurrent phases of rise and fall in jellyfish populations that society should be prepared to face."
"109" "The impact of an invasive exotic bush on the stopover ecology of migrant passerines" "Migration is highly energy-demanding and birds often need to accumulate large fuel loads during this period. However, original habitat at stopover sites could be affected by invasive exotic plants outcompeting native vegetation. The impact of exotic plants on the stopover behavior of migrant bird species is poorly understood. As a general hypothesis, it can be supposed that habitat change due to the presence of exotic plants will affect migrants, having a negative impact on bird abundance, on avian community assemblage, and/or on fuel deposition rate. To test these predictions, we used data obtained in august 2011 at a ringing station in a coastal wetland in northern iberia which contained both unaltered reedbeds (phragmites spp.) And areas where the reedbeds had been largely replaced by the invasive saltbush (baccharis halimifolia). Passerines associated with reedbeds during the migration period were used as model species, with a particular focus on sedge warblers (acrocephalus schoenobaenus). The saltbush promoted a noticeable change on bird assemblage, which became enriched by species typical of woodland habitats. Sedge warblers departed with a higher fuel load, showed a higher fuel deposition rate, and stayed for longer in the control zone than in the invaded zone. Invasive plants, such as saltbush, can impose radical changes on habitat, having a direct effect on the stopover strategies of migrants. The substitution of reedbeds by saltbushes in several coastal marshes in atlantic europe should be regarded as a problem with potential negative consequences for the conservation of migrant bird species associated with this habitat."
"110" "THE MORE THINGS CHANGE: SPECIES LOSSES DETECTED IN PHOENIX DESPITE STABILITY IN BIRD-SOCIOECONOMIC RELATIONSHIPS" "the science of urban ecology has increasingly grappled with the long-term ramifications of a globally urbanized planet and the impacts on biodiversity. some researchers have suggested that places with high species diversity in cities simply reflect an extinction debt of populations that are doomed to extinction but have not yet disappeared. the longitudinal studies conducted to date have found species composition shifting with urbanization but have not always documented continued species extirpations post-urbanization. we used long-term monitoring data on birds from the greater metropolitan area of phoenix, arizona, to measure changes in residential bird communities, species-habitat relationships, and human perceptions of bird species diversity over a five-year period. bird richness, occupancy, and abundance decreased, as did the percentage of respondents satisfied with bird variety in their neighborhoods. as in previous analyses for this region, we found that desert specialist species were associated with neighborhoods with xeric landscaping consisting of gravel groundcover, and drought-tolerant, desert-adapted vegetation. these species were also found in neighborhoods with high per capita income rates and lower percentages of renters and i iispanic/latinx residents. non-native species were positively associated with neighborhoods containing mesic yards with grass and other water-intensive vegetation. the proportions of yards in our surveyed neighborhoods with these distinct landscaping types likewise remained relatively stable over five-year period. although habitat-species relationships remained unchanged, we detected significant loss of species across the sampling period. declines were not confined to desert specialist species but included generalist and invader species as well. the parallel reduction in residents' satisfaction suggests that people perceive some aspect of this environmental degradation. further investigation into the mechanisms underlying these species losses may reveal options for retaining some desert specialist species, and the uniqueness they contribute to urban fauna."
"111" "TOWARD THE NEXT COMMON AGRICULTURAL POLICY REFORM: DETERMINANTS OF AVIAN COMMUNITIES IN HAY MEADOWS REVEAL CURRENT POLICY'S INADEQUACY FOR BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION IN GRASSLAND ECOSYSTEMS" "semi-natural grasslands are among the richest european ecosystems in terms of biodiversity. however, they have been severely affected by farming intensification and land abandonment, which have been both exacerbated by the european union's common agricultural policy (cap). the most recent cap included a \"greening\" measure dedicated to grassland conservation, presumed to be beneficial to biodiversity; however, scientific evidence about its effectiveness is still scarce. in the alps, hay meadows have undergone dramatic management changes in recent decades. we used a comprehensive community ecology approach to highlight how the multi-scale and interacting effects of such changes impact birds, with the aim of providing knowledge to support improvements to the cap. birds were surveyed at 63 landscape units in northeast italy, equally subdivided into areas dominated by (a) extensive hay meadows, (b) intensive hay meadows, and (c) areas formerly dominated by meadows but partially converted into other agricultural land use. this environmental gradient mirrors in space the temporal gradient of the agricultural changes that have recently occurred in the alps. community composition, species richness, and the number of meadow-specialist species were analysed according to environmental predictors (i.e. landscape, meadow management, and topography), and to spatial factors. we aimed to disentangle the exclusive and joint fraction of variation explained by each of them. meadow conversion, allowed by the cap in force, created a shift in community composition towards assemblages dominated by generalist species at the expense of meadow specialists. the cover of intensive meadows was negatively correlated with species richness, whereas the number of meadow specialists was negatively correlated with the cover of early-mown (i.e. within the third week of june) meadows. mowing date was, in turn, related to elevation, with meadows at higher elevations mown later in the season, and to meadow intensification (the use of external inputs, in particular liquid manure, leads to earlier and more frequent cuts per year). policy implications. our study confirms the concerns about effectiveness of the european union's common agricultural policy greening grassland measure in conserving biodiversity in those ecosystems. we suggest rethinking the common agricultural policy environmental prescriptions to account for the importance of meadow management in determining bird diversity patterns in alpine hay meadows. finally, we highlight market-based conservation strategies as complementary approaches for preserving grassland biodiversity."
"112" "Impact of tourism disturbance on forest vegetation in wutai mountain, china" "Tourism is one of the primary disturbances to forest vegetation worldwide. To understand the impacts of tourism, it is important to first identify the ecological characteristics of damaged forest vegetation. Here, we investigate different ecological patterns in disturbed and undisturbed regions of wutai mountain, china. Comparisons between disturbed and undisturbed forest community were conducted using two-way indicator species analysis (twinspan) and detrended correspondence analysis (dca). The twinspan analysis identified 13 association types from 76 total samples collected. The dca correlation analysis showed that forest community was significantly affected by physiographical factors (such as elevation and slope) in the undisturbed region; however, that was correlated with not only physiographical factors but also intensity of tourism, and the effect of tourism disturbance was stronger than that of physiographical factors in the disturbed regions. In addition, some indicator species were discovered. Our findings provide valuable information about conservation and management of sustainable tourism in the region."
"113" "INFLUENCE OF THE AGRICULTURAL CONSERVATION EASEMENT PROGRAM WETLAND PRACTICES ON WINTER OCCUPANCY OF PASSERELLIDAE SPARROWS AND AVIAN SPECIES RICHNESS" "wetlands enrolled in the agricultural conservation easement program (acep) are established as a means of restoring wetland ecosystems and wildlife habitat on private, agricultural land. in west virginia, usa, acep wetlands have never been evaluated to determine how they function as wildlife habitat in comparison to other available wetland habitat in the state. we measured the wintering occupancy of passerellidae species and apparent avian species richness on acep wetlands and a set of reference wetlands located on public land in west virginia to evaluate if acep wetlands are being used similarly by avian species to other available wetland habitat in the state. apparent avian species richness and the occupancy probability of four passerellidae species-song sparrows (melospiza melodia), darkeyed juncos (junco hyemalis), swamp sparrows (melospiza georgiana), and white-throated sparrows (zonotrichia albicollis)-did not differ between acep and reference sites. in addition to other vegetative and habitat associations for each species, dark-eyed junco occupancy was negatively correlated with wetland size while swamp sparrow occupancy and apparent avian species richness were positively associated with wetland size. these results indicate that acep wetlands are providing winter avian habitat as well as another source of wetland habitat in the state. maintaining and expanding acep wetlands in west virginia would continue to provide wetland systems in areas that are otherwise lacking these habitats."
"114" "a long-term study of gentoo penguin (pygoscelis papua) population trends at a major antarctic tourist site, goudier island, port lockroy" "gentoo penguins pygoscelis papua breed at a number of sites at the west antarctic peninsula, including goudier island, port lockroythe longest studied location for tourist-penguin interactions in the antarctic. these penguins annually encounter some of the highest numbers of tourists in the whole of antarctica. using yearly count data from all ten colonies on goudier island, we report changes in long-term population size and breeding success over a 21year period (1996/1997 to 2016/2017), documenting inter-annual variability in numbers of breeding pairs and chicks fledged (productivity). we found a 24.5% (1.4% per annum) decrease in breeding pairs; similar declines were evident in breeding pairs at six colonies visited by tourists as well as at four unvisited colonies. breeding success also declined, with chick numbers declining in visited (53.7%, 3.8% per annum) and unvisited colonies (59.8%, 4.6% per annum). while gentoo penguin numbers are increasing regionally, we reveal a recent decline in the goudier island population occurring simultaneous with increases in tourist numbers from 262 in 1996/1997 to 19,688 in 2016/2017. analyses suggest a complex situation with different possible drivers of change. there was a significant negative effect of increasing air temperature and shifts in sea ice variables on breeding pairs. however, similar statistical support showed a significant link existed between year and visitors, with higher numbers of visitors negatively affecting penguin numbers. based on our results we recommend increased precaution in management at goudier island, and initiation of similar studies at other frequently visited penguin sites in antarctica."
"115" "Collapse of farmland bird populations in an eastern european country following its eu accession" "Eastern european countries are considered a stronghold for the continent's farmland biodiversity. The abundance of farmland birds is one important element of this biodiversity. At the end of the 20th century, member states of the european union (eu) experienced serious population declines of farmland birds due to agricultural intensification, which was not observed in the eastern european nonmember states. In 2004, 10 mostly eastern european countries acceded to the eu. It is thus important to ask whether this historical step resulted in changes of agricultural production and, in turn, in farmland bird populations. Here we used annual crop yields and monitoring data on farmland bird abundance in an eastern european new eu-member state and showed that agricultural production intensified and farmland bird populations declined steeply after country's eu accession. These results indicate that entering eu's common agricultural policy caused significant deterioration of farmland biodiversity in a once biodiversity-rich region."
"116" "Combined impacts of deforestation and wildlife trade on tropical biodiversity are severely underestimated" "Tropical forest diversity is simultaneously threatened by habitat loss and exploitation for wildlife trade. Quantitative conservation assessments have previously considered these threats separately, yet their impacts frequently act together. We integrate forest extent maps in 2000 and 2015 with a method of quantifying exploitation pressure based upon a species' commercial value and forest accessibility. We do so for 308 forest-dependent bird species, of which 77 are commercially traded, in the southeast asian biodiversity hotspot of sundaland. We find 89% (274) of species experienced average habitat losses of 16% and estimate exploitation led to mean population declines of 37%. Assessing the combined impacts of deforestation and exploitation indicates the average losses of exploited species are much higher (54%), nearly doubling the regionally endemic species (from 27 to 51) threatened with extinction that should be iucn red listed. Combined assessment of major threats is vital to accurately quantify biodiversity loss."
"117" "Populations of commercial molluscs within a highly biodiverse marine protected area of the northern alboran sea (w mediterranean): preferential habitats, seasonal dynamics and importance for artisanal fisheries" "Seasonal dynamics and preferential sedimentary habitats of commercial molluscs have been studied in soft bottoms within the limits of the special area of conservation (sac) calahonda (s spain). This sac harbours a high diversity of invertebrate communities, and it is located in a very touristy area of the littoral of malaga and within the limits of one of the most productive shellfish fishing areas of the nw alboran sea. Here, the artisanal fishery targeting molluscs is a locally important activity because some species (e.g. Chamelea gallina, callista chione, donax trunculus) are highly demanded by locals and touristsand therefore reaching high commercial value. More than 200 molluscan species inhabit the soft bottoms of the sac calahonda, from which eight species collected in this study have economic value. The bivalve c. Gallina was the most abundant and frequent commercial species, mainly at shallow fine and medium sand bottoms, followed by c. Chione at coarse sand bottoms. Some species displayed higher abundance values of large or small size individuals at different depths, and most of them showed maximum abundances in spring and summer. Many invertebrate species associated with these soft bottoms are potentially very sensitive to dredging activities, especially echinoderms, decapods and cnidarians. Further research regarding the potential impact of fisheries on these assemblages would be desirable, especially considering the high biodiversity existing within this sac and the increase of tourists in the last years."
"118" "Bird community response to vegetation cover and composition in riparian habitats dominated by russian olive (elaeagnus angustifolia)" "Riparian systems in the western united states provide important habitat for bird communities during all times of the year. In recent decades, invasive plants, such as russian olive (elaeagnus angustifolia), have achieved broad distribution and local dominance in many western riparian areas, raising concerns over the loss of ecological function within these systems. In 2005 and 2006 we conducted avian point counts and surveyed vegetation cover at 95 points along the snake and columbia rivers in southeastern washington to investigate the effects of total woody vegetation cover and the relative proportion of russian olive cover on breeding and wintering riparian bird communities. Our results indicated that riparian habitats dominated by russian olive can support diverse and abundant bird communities, though cavity nesting species were noticeably sparse. Bird density and species richness were best explained by a quadratic relationship to total woody vegetation cover in both seasons, as was breeding bird community composition, with greatest density and richness in intermediate cover levels. We found no indication that the proportion of the woody vegetation comprised of russian olive strongly influenced any of these bird community metrics. Given that russian olive comprised 81.6% of the riparian vegetation in our study area, it is unclear from our results how russian olive would affect bird communities in regions where native vegetation is more abundant. Regardless, complete eradication of russian olive from riparian systems where the plant is a major component will reduce the overall habitat value for birds by eliminating significant structural complexity."
"119" "Community-level waterbird responses to water hyacinth (eichhornia crassipes)" "Water hyacinth is among the most widespread invasive plants worldwide; however, its effects on waterbirds are largely undocumented. We monitored site use by waterbirds at lake chapala, the largest lake in mexico and recently designated ramsar site, to evaluate the potential influence of water hyacinth cover on species composition and aggregate measures of the waterbird community, including waterbird density, species richness, and simpson's index of diversity. We examined the response of waterbirds to changes in percent water hyacinth cover at 22 independent sites around the lake during six study seasons from may 2006 to february 2008. We found little evidence to suggest that percent water hyacinth cover affected aggregate community measures; however, multivariate analysis of relative species composition suggested that water hyacinth cover corresponded with seasonal species composition (canonical correspondence r = 0.66, p = 0.007) when seasonal site cover averaged 17.7 +/- 4.67% (winter 2007). Several migratory species were not observed during this season, which could suggest that some small-bodied migratory species avoided lake chapala during the winter of high water hyacinth cover. We suspect that observed changes in the waterbird community are in response to species-specific tolerances for water hyacinth and indirect abiotic and biotic effects of its presence (e.g., invertebrate and fish composition)."
"120" "Reductions in primate abundance and diversity in a multiuse protected area: synergistic impacts of hunting and logging in a congo basin forest" "This article explores spatial and temporal changes in diurnal primate abundance and behavior in response to hunting, logging, and conservation at the dzanga sangha dense forest reserve (rds), central african republic over time. We use a combination of line-transect surveys in 2002 and 2009 (n = 540 km) and ethnographic interviews (n = 210) to investigate changes in the status of cerco-pithecines and colobines at rds, with additional comparisons to earlier work. This protected area was lightly logged in the 1970s and the park was gazetted in 1990, with multiple-use reserve sectors allocated. Since the park's inception, hunting and the trade of primates have increased, along with human migration, greater accessibility of arms, and reduction of preferred ungulate prey. Primates have declined in both the park and reserve sectors. Our data further suggest that at rds hunting has had a greater impact on primate diversity and abundance than logging. We have identified changes in species-specific vulnerability to hunting over time, with cercopithecus nictitans and lophocebus albigena initially having appeared to be relatively resistant to hunting pressure in 2002. However, subsequently as gun hunting has increased at rds, these species have become vulnerable. Although monkeys at rds have been responding behaviorally to increased gun hunting, they are not able to keep pace with changing hunting practices. This study allows us to begin to understand synergistic impacts of hunting and logging, necessary if we are to recommend strategies to better secure the future of primates in multiuse protected areas. Am. J. Primatol. 74:602-612, 2012. (C) 2012 wiley periodicals, inc."
"121" "Vascular plants on the islands and peninsulas of maloe more (lake baikal): patterns of diversity and species turnover" "Unique biota of the lake baikal region face many threats due to increasing human activities. We documented spatial patterns in diversity of vascular plants, explored effects of natural (bird colonies) and human-induced (tourism) disturbances on species richness of semi-desert and steppe-desert plant communities of 12 islands and 4 peninsulas, and estimated species turnover within a 30-year period. Floras of surveyed islands/peninsulas contained 9 to 143 species; species area relationship followed the power law model. Species richness did not change between 1979 and 2009, but the proportion of ruderal species doubled during this period. Mean relative turnover rate was 1.17% of species per year. The islands with large bird colonies had lower species richness than the islands with small or no colonies. Imposing restrictions on tourist visitation to at least three islands (zamogoj, khubyn and khunuk) is a feasible way to conserve substantial part of regional biodiversity."
"122" "Population increase of the great bustard otis tarda in its main distribution area in relation to changes in farming practices" "We update and present relevant information regarding the abundance and distribution of the great bustard otis tarda in castilla y leon (spain) in 2008, compare it with previous census results, and analyse the effects of agricultural changes on the provincial abundance and distribution of the species. The study area was surveyed from four-wheel drive vehicles driven at low speed (20-30 km/h) along predetermined transects, stopping frequently at prominent spots. The intention was to detect all the great bustards present in the study area. The great bustard population in castilla y leon during the breeding season of 2008 was 14,025 birds: 5,637 males, 7,760 females and 628 individuals whose sex could not be determined. The population was 34% greater in 2008 than in 1998 when the area surveyed in both censuses is compared. Population increases were recorded in all provinces except for soria, where no birds were observed. Not all local populations within provinces increased: we detected population declines of over 10% in 43 (27%) of the 160 polygons surveyed both in 1998 and 2008, population increases of over 10%. In 93 (58%) polygons, and largely stable populations (changes less than 10%) in 24 (15%) polygons. Provincial increases in bustard numbers were positively correlated with increases in the extent of unirrigated legume crops. The great bustard population in castilla y leon in 2008 was the largest in the world, accounting for 27-32% of the global population and about 47% of the estimated spanish population. The spread of unirrigated legumes, crops that are promoted by agri-environment schemes, may have fostered the observed population increase between 1998 and 2008. A survey of the region every ten years is proposed to monitor future population trends."
"123" "Effects of vegetation cover, presence of a native ant species, and human disturbance on colonization by argentine ants" "The spread of non-native invasive species is affected by human activity, vegetation cover, weather, and interaction with native species. We analyzed data from a 17-year study of the distribution of the non-native argentine ant (linepithema humile) and the native winter ant (prenolepis imparis) in a preserve in northern california (u.s.a.). We conducted logistic regressions and used model selection to determine whether the following variables were associated with changes in the distribution of each species: presence of conspecifics at neighboring sites, distance to development (e.g., roads, buildings, and landscaped areas), proportion of vegetation cover taller than 0.75 m, elevation, distance to water, presence of both species at a site, temperature, and rainfall. Argentine ants colonized unoccupied sites from neighboring sites, but the probability of appearance and persistence decreased as distance to development, vegetation cover, and elevation increased. Winter ants appeared and persisted in sites with relatively high vegetation cover (i.e., highly shaded sites). Presence of the 2 species was negatively associated in sites with high vegetation cover (more winter ants) and sites near development (more argentine ants). Probability of colonization of argentine ants decreased where winter ants were most persistent. At sites near development within the preserve, abundant argentine ant populations may be excluding winter ants. The high abundance of argentine ants at these sites may be due to immigration from suburban areas outside the preserve, which are high-quality habitat for argentine ants. In the interior of the preserve, distance from development, low-quality habitat, and interaction with winter ants may in combination exclude argentine ants. Interactions among the variables we examined were associated with low probabilities of argentine ant colonization in the preserve."
"124" "Market access, population density, and socioeconomic development explain diversity and functional group biomass of coral reef fish assemblages" "There is overwhelming evidence that many local-scale human activities (e.g. Fishing) have a deleterious effect on coral reef fish assemblages. Our understanding of how broad social phenomena (e.g. Socioeconomic development) affect the diversity and function of coral reef fish assemblages however, is still poor. Here, we use structural equation models to reveal how human population density, socioeconomic development, and market access affect fishing pressure and coral cover to, in turn, explain the diversity and biomass of key functional groups of reef fish assemblages within solomon islands. Fishing pressure is predominantly driven by both market access and local population density, and has a clear negative effect on the diversity and function of coral reef fishes. The strong positive effect of market access on fishing pressure makes clear the importance of understanding social-ecological linkages in the context of increasingly connected societies. This study highlights the need to address broad social phenomena rather than focusing on proximate threats such as fishing pressure, to ensure the continued flow of coral reef goods and services in this time of rapid global social and environmental change. (C) 2012 elsevier ltd. All rights reserved."
"125" "Watching Extinction Happen: The Dramatic Population Decline Of The Critically Endangered Tanzanian Turquoise Dwarf Gecko, Lygodactylus Williamsi" "The turquoise dwarf gecko (lygodactylus williamsi) is endemic to two small forests in eastern tanzania, where it exclusively dwells on screwpines (pandanus rabaiensis). To assess its population status, we surveyed its habitats at the kimboza forest reserve and (under different assumptions) estimated the population size of the territorial l. Williamsi based on habitat availability, using pandanus abundance as a proxy. Furthermore, threats to the species, especially the impact of the international pet trade on the population, were studied. Our results suggest a severe population decline, as the observed population size is one third smaller than its potential size based on habitat availability (i.e., pandanus). We estimate that in a period of four and a half years, at least 15% of the potential population were collected for the pet trade, making it a major threat to l. Williamsi next to habitat degradation. Based on our results, we consider this species to be threatened with extinction (critically endangered)."
"126" "Driftnet fishery threats sea turtles in the atlantic ocean" "Fisheries are recognised as a major threat to sea turtles worldwide. Oceanic driftnets are considered the main cause of the steep decline in pacific ocean populations of the leatherback sea turtle dermochelys coriacea. The world's largest leatherback population nests in west africa and migrates across the atlantic ocean to feed off the south american coast. There, the turtles encounter a range of fisheries, including the brazilian driftnet fishery targeting hammerhead sharks. From 2002 to 2008, 351 sea turtles were incidentally caught in 41 fishing trips and 371 sets. Leatherbacks accounted for 77.3% of the take (n = 252 turtles, capture rate = 0.1405 turtles/km of net), followed by loggerheads caretta caretta (47 individuals, capture rate = 0.0262 turtles/km of net), green turtles chelonia mydas (27 individuals, capture rate = 0.0151 turtles/km of net) and unidentified hard-shelled turtles (25 individual, capture rate = 0.0139 turtles/km of net) that fell off the net during hauling. Immediate mortality (i.e., turtles that were dead upon reaching the vessel, excluding post-release mortality) was similar among the species and accounted for 22.2 to 29.4% of turtles hauled onboard. The annual catch by this fishery ranged from 1,212 to 6,160 leatherback turtles, as estimated based on bootstrap procedures under different fishing effort scenarios in the 1990s. The present inertia in law and enforcement regarding gillnet regulations in brazil could result in the reestablishment of the driftnet fishery, driving rates of leatherback mortality to levels similar to those observed in previous decades. This development could potentially lead to the collapse of the south atlantic leatherback population, mirroring the decline of the species in the pacific. In light of these potential impacts and similar threats to other pelagic mega fauna, we recommend banning this type of fishery in the region."
"127" "TRAMPLING ON CORAL REEFS: TOURISM EFFECTS ON HARPACTICOID COPEPODS" "human trampling is a common type of disturbance associated with outdoor recreational activities in coastal ecosystems. in this study, the effect of trampling on the meiofaunal harpacticoid copepod assemblage inhabiting turfs on a coral reef was investigated. in porto de galinhas, northeastern brazil, reef formations near the beach are one of the main touristic destinations in the country. to assess trampling impact, two areas were compared: a protected area and an area subject to intensive tourism. densities of total harpacticoida and of the most abundant harpacticoid species showed strong reductions in the trampled area. an analysis of covariance revealed that the loss of phytal habitat was not the main source of density reductions, showing that trampling affected the animals directly. in addition, multivariate analysis demonstrated differences in the structure of harpacticoid assemblages between areas. of the 43 species identified, 12 were detected by the indicator species analyses as being indicators of the protected or trampled areas. moreover, species richness was reduced in the area open to tourism. at least 25 harpacticoids are new species for science, of these, 20 were more abundant or occurred only in the protected area, while five were more abundant or occurred only in the trampled area; thus, our results highlight the possibility of local extinction of still-unknown species as one of the potential consequences of trampling on coral reefs."
"128" "Macro- and meiofaunal community features in the critical environmental system of a tourist harbour (rapallo, ligurian sea, nw mediterranean)" "Two samplings were carried out in a tourist harbour, during low and high touristic activity periods, to study the macro- and meiofaunal communities in relation to the environmental features. A multivariate analysis showed close relationships: the maritime traffic disturbance and the food quality and availability drive the spatial differences of the assemblages, dividing the area into three sub-areas: the area near the boate torrent that empties into the harbour, the harbour proper, and the external area (just outside the harbour). Macro- and meiofauna showed notably different temporal trends, indicating competition for the resources and the higher sensitivity of the macrofauna to environmental pressures. The macrofauna strongly decreased as a response to heavier harbour activities, with increasing turbidity also affecting the external station outside the harbour. Finally, comparing the macrofaunal communities to those sampled in the same area 10 years before, we found that their abundance, richness and biomass had notably decreased, highlighting the worsening of the harbour environment due to the increased organic load and turbidity. (C) 2011 elsevier ltd. All rights reserved."
"129" "Homogenization of freshwater fish faunas after the elimination of a natural barrier by a dam in neotropics" "Aim we quantify biotic homogenization of fish fauna caused by the elimination of a natural barrier between two freshwater ecoregions. We also evaluated fish introductions by different mechanisms such as aquaculture, angling and the aquarium trade in the homogenization of fish assemblages. The relative importance of native extinctions in the homogenization process was assessed by simulating the exclusion of threatened species in the data set. Location parana river, south-eastern south america. Methods a fish species list of the parana river basin was organized in a subset of species distributions, according to pre- and post-introductions caused by the elimination of the natural barrier and by other mechanisms. Biotic homogenization was verified by the use of jaccard's and bray-curtis's coefficients, whittaker's beta diversity index, non-metric multidimensional scaling analysis (nmds) and nonparametric tests. Results for all subsets of species distributions, we observed an increase in the number of non-native species in common related to the introductions. Between 40 and 52% of the species currently present in the upper parana basin dispersed upstream from the lower parana after the construction of itaipu dam, including at least 1 class, 2 orders, 4 families and 16 genera of fish. Jaccard's coefficient between the upper and lower parana river increased by 6-7.5% only considering the itaipu dam influence and 10.5% considering all mechanisms of fish introductions. More than 50% of the increase in similarity was caused by the elimination of the barrier. Our results indicated functional homogenization related to large-bodied siluriformes (catfish). Main conclusions itaipu lake flooded a natural barrier and allowed hydrologic connectivity between the upper and lower parana river, and many fishes of the lower part of the river were able to colonize the upper stretches. The homogenization of the two assemblages between these adjacent aquatic regions was an unpredicted result of hydropower implementation. Introductions by dam can also shift longitudinal and latitudinal body size patterns (i.e. Bergmann's rule)."
"130" "THE CONSERVATION VALUE OF OIL PALM PLANTATION ESTATES, SMALLHOLDINGS AND LOGGED PEAT SWAMP FOREST FOR BIRDS" "THE EXPANSION OF INDUSTRIAL OIL PALM CULTIVATION THREATENS TROPICAL BIODIVERSITY GLOBALLY, ESPECIALLY IN DEVELOPING COUNTRIES. DRIVEN BY PLANS TO GENERATE ECONOMIC REVENUE, LARGE-SCALE PLANTATIONS ARE EMERGING IN SOUTHEAST ASIA, AFRICA AND BRAZILIAN AMAZON. HOWEVER, THE ECOLOGICAL IMPACTS OF THE SECTOR ARE POORLY STUDIED WITH RESPECT TO OIL PALM MANAGEMENT SYSTEM, AND RECOMMENDED CONSERVATION MEASURES ARE BASED ON LIMITED DATA. WE STUDIED AVIFAUNA IN OIL PALM LANDSCAPES IN PENINSULAR MALAYSIA UNDER DIFFERENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS (LARGE PLANTATION ESTATES VERSUS SMALLHOLDINGS) AND AGE CLASSES (UNIFORM AGE VERSUS MIXED-AGE STANDS). WE SAMPLED 41 LARGE PLANTATION ESTATES AND 14 SMALLHOLDINGS, AS WELL AS 20 SITES IN AN EXTENSIVELY LOGGED PEAT SWAMP FOREST, THE TYPE OF NATURAL FOREST PRIOR TO CONVERSION TO OIL PALMS. COMPARED WITH LOGGED PEAT SWAMP FOREST, OUR RESULTS SHOWED THAT FOREST CONVERSION TO OIL PALM CULTIVATION MAY HAVE ELIMINATED 48-60% OF BIRD SPECIES. WE ALSO FOUND: (I) PLANTATION ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDINGS SUPPORTED SIMILAR BIRD ASSEMBLAGES BUT THE LATTER SUPPORTED SIGNIFICANTLY MORE SPECIES (P = 0.007); AND (II) DESPITE REDUCED SPECIES RICHNESS IN OIL PALM LANDSCAPES, WE FOUND HIGH ABUNDANCE OF SOME INDIVIDUAL BIRD SPECIES IN SPECIFIC TYPES OF STANDS INCLUDING SOME FOREST, MIGRATORY, AND WETLAND SPECIES. CONVERSION OF NATURAL FOREST TO OIL PALM LANDSCAPES SHOULD NOT OCCUR IN THE FUTURE THROUGH CLEARING OF PRIMARY OR SECONDARY NATIVE FORESTS. TO COMPLEMENT CONVENTIONAL CONSERVATION APPROACHES (E.G. THE ESTABLISHMENT OF PROTECTED AREAS) IN PALM OIL-PRODUCING COUNTRIES, EXISTING PLANTATION ESTATES AND SMALLHOLDINGS SHOULD BE MANAGED IN WAYS TO PROMOTE IMPROVED CONSERVATION OUTCOMES, ALTHOUGH OIL PALM LANDSCAPES MAINTAINED A FRACTION OF THE ORIGINAL FOREST BIODIVERSITY. MANAGING HABITAT HETEROGENEITY AT BOTH A LOCAL AND A LANDSCAPE-LEVEL IS HIGHLY RECOMMENDED IN OIL PALM LANDSCAPES TO MAINTAIN AND/OR ENHANCE AVIAN BIODIVERSITY. (C) 2011 ELSEVIER B.V. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED."
"131" "Faunal mortality on roads due to religious tourism across time and space in protected areas: a case study from south india" "The presence of roads in any landscape is known to negatively influence terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems. Many tourist destinations and religious enclaves in developing countries are inside protected areas (pa). They are well connected by roads and attract thousands of visitors. The effect of such large human congregations inside pa on biodiversity is not well understood. Here, we address the impacts of increased vehicular traffic due to religious tourism on local fauna inside the kalakad mundanthurai tiger reserve in south india. We sampled sections of surfaced roads for mortalities before and during an annual festival across three habitats in 2008 and 2009. Millipedes, anurans, insects and reptiles dominated the mortalities and mammals avoided the roads. A total of 1413 individuals belonging to 56 species were killed on roads. Nocturnal species constituted 50% of these mortalities and 64% of the species composition. There was a 299% increase in road mortalities and 648% increase in nocturnal species mortality during the festival compared to those before the festival. Mean mortalities varied across habitats and were highest in moist deciduous forests. Mortalities were influenced significantly by vehicular traffic rather than rainfall. Indications of a temporary local extinction were evident beyond certain threshold of vehicular movement. The number of vehicles plying on the roads was three times higher than the threshold level as determined in this study. The festival also had a spillover effect by causing increased mortalities on roads not connected to the temple. We discuss several strategies to minimize impacts due to large scale vehicular movement inside protected areas. (C) 2011 elsevier b.v. All rights reserved."
"132" "GLOBAL TRENDS AND FACTORS ASSOCIATED WITH THE ILLEGAL KILLING OF ELEPHANTS: A HIERARCHICAL BAYESIAN ANALYSIS OF CARCASS ENCOUNTER DATA" "ELEPHANT POACHING AND THE IVORY TRADE REMAIN HIGH ON THE AGENDA AT MEETINGS OF THE CONVENTION ON INTERNATIONAL TRADE IN ENDANGERED SPECIES OF WILD FAUNA AND FLORA (CITES). WELL-INFORMED DEBATES REQUIRE ROBUST ESTIMATES OF TRENDS, THE SPATIAL DISTRIBUTION OF POACHING, AND DRIVERS OF POACHING. WE PRESENT AN ANALYSIS OF TRENDS AND DRIVERS OF AN INDICATOR OF ELEPHANT POACHING OF ALL ELEPHANT SPECIES. THE SITE-BASED MONITORING SYSTEM KNOWN AS MONITORING THE ILLEGAL KILLING OF ELEPHANTS (MIKE), SET UP BY THE 10(TH) CONFERENCE OF THE PARTIES OF CITES IN 1997, PRODUCES CARCASS ENCOUNTER DATA REPORTED MAINLY BY ANTI-POACHING PATROLS. DATA ANALYZED WERE SITE BY YEAR TOTALS OF 6,337 CARCASSES FROM 66 SITES IN AFRICA AND ASIA FROM 2002-2009. ANALYSIS OF THESE OBSERVATIONAL DATA IS A SERIOUS CHALLENGE TO TRADITIONAL STATISTICAL METHODS BECAUSE OF THE OPPORTUNISTIC AND NON-RANDOM NATURE OF PATROLS, AND THE HETEROGENEITY ACROSS SITES. ADOPTING A BAYESIAN HIERARCHICAL MODELING APPROACH, WE USED THE PROPORTION OF CARCASSES THAT WERE ILLEGALLY KILLED (PIKE) AS A POACHING INDEX, TO ESTIMATE THE TREND AND THE EFFECTS OF SITE-AND COUNTRY-LEVEL FACTORS ASSOCIATED WITH POACHING. IMPORTANT DRIVERS OF ILLEGAL KILLING THAT EMERGED AT COUNTRY LEVEL WERE POOR GOVERNANCE AND LOW LEVELS OF HUMAN DEVELOPMENT, AND AT SITE LEVEL, FOREST COVER AND AREA OF THE SITE IN REGIONS WHERE HUMAN POPULATION DENSITY IS LOW. AFTER A DROP FROM 2002, PIKE REMAINED FAIRLY CONSTANT FROM 2003 UNTIL 2006, AFTER WHICH IT INCREASED UNTIL 2008. THE RESULTS FOR 2009 INDICATE A DECLINE. SITES WITH PIKE RANGING FROM THE LOWEST TO THE HIGHEST WERE IDENTIFIED. THE RESULTS OF THE ANALYSIS PROVIDE A SOUND INFORMATION BASE FOR SCIENTIFIC EVIDENCE-BASED DECISION MAKING IN THE CITES PROCESS."
"133" "The Response Of Meiofauna To Human Trampling On Coral Reefs" "Coastal environments are trampled by humans worldwide; however, there are few studies that evaluate the effect of trampling on the meiofauna of hard substrates, and none on meiofauna of reef environments. We investigated the effects of trampling due to tourism on the meiofauna of reef formations on the northeastern coast of brazil. Samples were taken from five paired stations located in two areas on the reef: an area protected since 2004, and an area open to tourist visits. Trampling caused important changes in the meiofaunal assemblage. The densities of the total meiofauna and of the commonest groups were negatively affected in the trampled area. Among the major groups, polychaeta proved to be very sensitive to this disturbance. The meiofauna groups showed different response patterns to trampling depending on the species of algae trampled. Reductions in animal densities were partly attributed to the loss of turf biomass and associated sand caused by trampling, and partly to the direct effect of people stepping on the animals. Considering the importance of meiofauna in the food web as well as its biodiversity, these results highlight the possible negative effects of human trampling on the ecological and economic \"services\" that coral reefs provide."
"134" "Structure of mixed ombrophyllous forests with araucaria angustifolia (araucariaceae) under external stress in southern brazil" "This study is part of the floristic and forest inventory of santa catarina, conceived to evaluate forest resources, species composition and structure of forest remnants, providing information to update forest conservation and land use policy in southern brazilian state of santa catarina (95 000km(2)). In accordance to the brazilian national forest inventory (ifn-br), the inventory applies systematic sampling, with 440 clusters containing four crosswise 1 000m(2) plots (20x50m) each, located on a 10x10km grid overlaid to land use map based on classification of spot-4 images from 2005. Within the sample units, all woody individuals of the main stratum (dbh >= 10cm) are measured and collected (fertile and sterile), if not undoubtedly identified in field. Regeneration stratum (height>1.50m; dbh<10cm) is registered in 100m(2) in each sample unit. Floristic sampling includes collection of all fertile trees, shrubs and herbs within the sample unit and in its surroundings. This study performs analysis based on 92 clusters measured in 2008 within an area of 32 320km(2) of mixed ombrophyllous forests with araucaria angustifolia located at the state's high plateau (500m to 1 560m above sea level at 26 degrees 00'-28 degrees 30' s and 49 degrees 13'-51 degrees 23' w). Mean density (dbh >= 10cm) is 578 individuals/ha (ranging from 85/ha to 1 310/ha), mean species richness in measured remnants is 35 (8 to 62), shannon and wiener diversity index (h') varies between 1.05 and 3.48. Despite high total species diversity (364 magnoliophyta, five coniferophyta and one tree fern) and relatively high mean basal area (25.75m(2)/ha, varying from 3.87 to 68.85m(2)/ha), the overwhelming majority of forest fragments are considered highly impacted and impoverished, mostly by logging, burning and extensive cattle farming, turning necessary more efficient protection measures. Basal area was considered an appropriate indicator for stand quality and conservation status. Rev. Biol. Trop. 59(3): 1371-1387. Epub 2011 september 01."
"135" "River restoration success depends on the species pool of the immediate surroundings" "Previous studies evaluating the success of river restorations have rarely found any consistent effects on benthic invertebrate assemblages. In this study, we analyzed data from 24 river restoration projects in germany dating back 1 to 12 years and 1231 data sets from adjacent river reaches that lie within 0-5, 5-10, and 10-15 km rings centered on the restored sites. We calculated restoration success and recolonization potential of adjacent river reaches based on stream-type-specific subsets of taxa indicative for good or bad habitat quality. On average, the restorations did not improve the benthic invertebrate community quality. However, we show that restoration success depends on the presence of source populations of desired taxa in the surrounding of restored sites. Only where source populations of additional desired taxa existed within a 0-5 km ring around the restored sites were benthic invertebrate assemblages improved by the restoration. Beyond the 5-km rings, this recolonization effect was no longer detected. We present here the first field results to support the debated argument that a lack of source populations in the areas surrounding restored sites may play an important role in the failure to establish desired invertebrate communities by the means of river restorations. In contrast, long-range dispersal of invertebrates seems to play a subordinate role in the recolonization of restored sites. However, because the surroundings of the restored sites were far from good ecological quality, the potential for improvement of restored sites was limited."
"136" "abundance and diversity of aquatic macroinvertebrate communities in lakes exposed to chernobyl-derived ionising radiation" "littoral (lake shore) macroinvertebrate communities were studied in eight natural lakes affected by fallout from the chernobyl accident. the lakes spanned a range in cs-137 contamination from 100 to 15500 kbq m(-2) and estimated external dose rates ranged from 0.13 to 30.7 mu gy h(-1). general linear models were used to assess whether abundance of individuals, taxon richness, berger-parker dominance and shannon-wiener diversity varied across the lakes. step-wise multiple regressions were used to relate variation in total abundance, taxon richness, berger-parker dominance, shannon-wiener diversity, taxon richness within major groups of macroinvertebrates and abundance of the more common individual taxa to the measured environmental characteristics (conductivity, ph, total hardness and phosphate; lake area, lake maximum depth and total external dose) of the lakes. no evidence was found in this study that the ecological status of lake communities has been influenced by radioactive contamination from the chernobyl accident. indeed, the most contaminated lake, glubokoye, contained the highest richness of aquatic invertebrates. taxon richness in the eight study lakes varied from 22 (svyatskoe #7) to 42 (glubokoye) which spans a range typical for uncontaminated lakes in the region. since sr-90 is readily-absorbed by mollusca, estimated dose rates to this group exceeded those for other invertebrate groups in two lakes (perstok and glubokoye). however this study found no association between mollusc diversity or abundance of individual snail species and variation between lakes in the external radiation dose. indeed glubokoye, the lake most contaminated by sr-90, had the highest richness of freshwater snails per sample (an average of 8.9 taxa per sample). (c) 2011 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved."
"137" "Influence of exurban development on bird species richness and diversity" "Exurban development is an accelerating land use trend in the united states with new housing units emerging in formerly closed forests. Conservation practitioners and planners suspect exurban development alters ecological processes and biodiversity to a considerable larger extent than suspected by inhabitants of exurban development areas, but empirical support for this assertion is lacking. To examine the consequences of exurban development, we studied forest bird communities in exurban development and forests located in and around shenandoah national park and massanutten mountain in northern virginia, usa. We conducted point-count surveys for birds three times at 106 sample locations from april to july 2006. We recorded 44 species in total; 30 species were present in both exurban development and forests, 9 species were only found in exurban development, and 5 species only in forest. Bird species composition differed significantly between land-use types based on analysis in a multi-response permutation procedure (mrpp; p < 0.01). Relative bird abundance for forest specialist species changed significantly in exurban development versus forest (t test, p < 0.05). Three species, american robin turdus migratorius, northern cardinal cardinalis cardinalis, and common grackle quiscalus quiscula were indicators of exurban development. Indicators of forest were carolina chickadee poecile carolinensis, eastern towhee pipilo erythrophthalmus, and wood thrush hylocichla mustelina. Our study demonstrates that exurban development alters bird community composition and relative abundance of forest specialist species."
"138" "Population Trends Of Grassland Birds In North America Are Linked To The Prevalence Of An Agricultural Epizootic In Europe" "Globalization of trade has dramatic socioeconomic effects, and, intuitively, significant ecological effects should follow. However, few quantitative examples exist of the interrelationship of globalization, socioeconomics, and ecological patterns. We present a striking illustration of a cascade in which bovine spongiform encephalopathy (bse; \"mad cow disease\") outbreaks in europe exerted pressure on global beef markets, subsequently affecting north american hayfields and grassland bird populations. We examined competing models, which linked the prevalence of bse in five focal countries, volume of beef exports to those countries from north america, and the amount of hayfield harvested and the abundance of grassland birds in north america. We found that (i) imports from north america increased 1 y after bse outbreaks; (ii) probably because fewer cattle remained, the hay harvest in north america was reduced 2 y after the outbreak; (iii) the reduced hay harvest yielded a positive response in grassland bird populations 3 y after the outbreak."
"139" "FRUIT QUANTITY OF INVASIVE SHRUBS PREDICTS THE ABUNDANCE OF COMMON NATIVE AVIAN FRUGIVORES IN CENTRAL PENNSYLVANIA" "AIM BIOLOGICAL INVASIONS POSE ONE OF THE MOST SEVERE THREATS TO GLOBAL BIODIVERSITY. STILL, INVASIONS CAN CREATE POSITIVE ECOLOGICAL RELATIONSHIPS AND SERVICES, WHICH CAN SOMETIMES RESULT IN CHALLENGES FOR CONSERVATION EFFORTS. A CASE IN POINT IS THE INVASION OF ALIEN PLANTS THAT FORM MUTUALISMS WITH NATIVE FRUGIVOROUS BIRDS. HERE, WE EXAMINED THE CORRELATION BETWEEN HONEYSUCKLES (LONICERA SPP.) AND THE BIRD COMMUNITIES IN A LANDSCAPE OF CENTRAL PENNSYLVANIA DURING THE FALL MONTHS. LOCATION STATE COLLEGE AREA IN CENTRAL PENNSYLVANIA, USA. METHODS WE CONDUCTED POINT COUNTS TO QUANTIFY THE ABUNDANCE OF BIRDS AND FLESHY-FRUITED PLANT SPECIES WITHIN A 187.5 KM2 LANDSCAPE THAT INCLUDED FORESTED, URBAN AND AGRICULTURAL LANDS. WE ALSO COMPARED FRUIT-REMOVAL RATES FOR A NATIVE FRUITING PLANT UNDER LOW AND HIGH LONICERA DENSITIES. RESULTS THE ABUNDANCE OF BIRDS SHOWED A STRONG POSITIVE ASSOCIATION WITH LONICERA FRUITS, WITH THE ABUNDANCE OF TURDUS MIGRATORIUS AND DUMETELLA CAROLINENSIS SHOWING THE STRONGEST CORRELATIONS. WE ALSO FOUND THAT FRUIT-REMOVAL RATES WERE 30% LARGER FOR A NATIVE PLANT SPECIES IN AREAS OF HIGH LONICERA DENSITY COMPARED TO A SITE WITH LOW DENSITY OF LONICERA. MAIN CONCLUSIONS OUR RESULTS SUGGEST THAT LONICERA MAY CURRENTLY SERVE AS A MAIN AXIS FOR THE ORGANIZATION OF BIRD COMMUNITIES AND THE NETWORKS OF FRUGIVORE-PLANT INTERACTIONS IN CENTRAL PENNSYLVANIA. SINCE POPULATIONS OF KEY BIRD FRUGIVORES MAY BE CURRENTLY DEPENDING ON LONICERA RESOURCES, WE ARGUE THAT CONTROL MEASURES SHOULD ACCOUNT FOR THE NEGATIVE EFFECTS THAT THE LOSS OF THIS FRUIT RESOURCE COULD HAVE ON POPULATIONS OF NATIVE CONSUMERS IN HIGHLY INVADED REGIONS."
"140" "Potential impacts of tourist developments in st lucia on the endangered white-breasted thrasher ramphocinclus brachyurus" "A rapidly developing tourism industry, concentrated in coastal regions, is suspected to seriously impact upon biodiversity in the global conservation priority of the insular caribbean. In st lucia, construction of tourism infrastructure in the coastal dry forest threatens the endangered white-breasted thrasher ramphocinclus brachyurus. Long-term protection of habitat is vital, but design of such conservation action is constrained by lack of data on the species' distribution and population responses to habitat change and fragmentation. Distance sampling surveys were conducted in 2006 and 2007 to estimate numbers and map the distribution of the two remaining sub-populations. White-breasted thrashers in st lucia were estimated to number around 1,200 individuals, with roughly 1,050 birds occupying just over 600 ha of dry forest in the mandele area. We demonstrate that tourist development companies will likely soon own land constituting around 40% of the species' extent of occurrence on st lucia, and nearly 35% globally, and that ongoing and planned tourist developments threaten around one third of the st lucian white-breasted thrasher population. Given the size of these potential impacts, it is vital that patches of dry forest to the west and north of a development site in the mandele area are safeguarded. These sites support white-breasted thrashers at high density and are contiguous with an existing forest reserve. Other important conservation measures include preserving stands of connected mature dry and riparian forest inside the tourist development sites, alongside invasive predator control."
"141" "Does use of tropical beaches by tourists and island residents result in damage to fringing coral reefs? A case study in moorea french polynesia" "Although coral reefs worldwide are subject to increasing global threats, humans also impact coral reefs directly through localized activities such as snorkeling, kayaking and fishing. We investigated five sites on the northern shore of moorea, french polynesia, and quantified the number of visitors on the beach and in shallow water. In field surveys, we measured total coral cover and colony sizes of two common genera, porites and acropora, a massive and branching morphology, respectively. One site, which hosted over an order of magnitude more people than the other four, had significantly less total coral cover and supported very little branching acropora. In addition, size frequency distributions of both the branching and massive genera were skewed toward smaller colony sizes at the high use site. Our results demonstrated that the use of tropical beaches may result in less coral cover, with branching colonies rare and small. (C) 2010 elsevier ltd. All rights reserved."
"142" "Shorebirds in the state of sergipe, northeast brazil: potential tourism impacts" "Many neartic shorebirds migrate to south america for the non-breeding season, using several key stopover and wintering sites along the atlantic coast. However, there is little information about shorebird use of the northeast coast of brazil, especially at those sites experiencing increasing levels of tourism. This study examines the potential impacts of tourism on shorebirds at atalaia nova beach in sergipe state, brazil. On a 5 km stretch of beach, we conducted censuses on 67 days throughout 2004. There was a significant negative correlation between numbers of people and numbers of all shorebirds (r = -0.25), and especially for arenaria interpres (ruddy turnstone; r = -0.24), charadrius collaris (collared plover; r = -0.31), calidris pusilla (semipalmated sandpiper; r = -0.64), and calidris canutus (red knot; r = -0.71). We conclude that the growth of tourism at atalaia nova beach (particularly recreation and development) has the potential to negatively impact shorebird use of the beach. Before tourism developments are initiated, more research should examine their potential effects on shorebird use of the area."
"143" "Bryophyte diversity in karst sinkholes affected by different degrees of human disturbance" "The diversity of bryophytes in karst sinkholes has received little attention, and these habitats probably play a crucial role as refugia. In this study, bryophyte diversity affected by different levels of human disturbance in five karst sinkholes was compared. A total of 132 species of bryophytes (17 liverworts and 115 mosses) that belong to 64 genera and 30 families were recorded. The richness of the bryophytes in the natural sinkholes was significantly higher than that of the bryophytes in the sinkholes affected by tourism and used as farmland. Canonical correspondence analysis showed that soil moisture is one of the most important factors that affect the abundance of bryophyte distribution in the five sinkholes. Human activities, including agriculture, animal husbandry, and tourism development, reduce the bryophyte coverage of sinkholes and lead to soil moisture loss. Therefore, effective protection of karst sinkholes is required to maintain their original value for biodiversity conservation."
"144" "Invasion of aquarium origin soft corals on a tropical rocky reef in the southwest atlantic, brazil" "Non-indigenous species (nis) can cause substantial change in ecosystems and as marine invasives they can become a major threat to coastal and subtidal habitats. In september 2017 previously unknown and apparently nis soft corals were detected on a shallow subtidal tropical rocky reef at ilha grande bay, southeast brazil. The present study aims to identify the species, quantify their distribution, abundance, and their interactions with native species. The most abundant nis belonged to the recently described genus sansibia (family xeniidae) and the less common species was identified as clavularia cf. Viridis (family clavulariidae). They were found along 170 m of shoreline at all depths where hard substrate was available. Sansibia sp. Dominated deeper communities, associated positively with some macroalgal and negatively with the zoantharian palythoa caribaeonon, which probably provided greater biotic resistance to invasion. Both species are of indo-pacific origin and typical of those ornamentals found in the aquarium trade."
"145" "Evaluating The Impacts Of Wood Production And Trade On Bird Extinction Risks" "Biodiversity loss can be accelerated by human consumption in regions that are far removed from habitat degradation because of economic globalization, but no study has directly quantified the effects of global trade on extinction risks at a global scale with consideration for species differences. We propose a novel biodiversity footprint index based on bird extinction risks to evaluate the effects of global wood production and trade on biodiversity. Using 536 endangered bird species threatened by wood harvesting and logging, we calculated the \"quasi-extinction\" probabilities, that is, the probabilities that population sizes become lower than an extinction threshold after habitat loss based on initial population sizes and forest habitat loss rates. We then used bilateral wood trade data to link the biodiversity impacts in wood exporters to wood importers. We found that if recent trends in forest cover loss continue until 2100, bird species in brazil would be the most rapidly and heavily affected by wood production and trade, followed by those in indonesia; these two countries alone would account for about half of all global bird extinctions. Large-scale wood importers (i.e., china, japan, and the united states) significantly elevate overseas extinction risks and, simultaneously, reduce domestic impacts, indicating a heavy responsibility of these countries for global biodiversity loss. We also conducted a scenario analysis, which showed that the total projected number of extinct species would not decrease if each country produced the amount of wood materials necessary to meet current consumption levels. This is because bird extinction risks in tropical wood importers, such as mexico and the philippines, as well as japan and china will increase if these countries increase domestic wood production. Our biodiversity footprint index is useful to identify countries whose bird species are highly affected by wood production and trade, and to quantify the role of wood trade in bird species extinctions. Additional scenario analyses are needed to establish effective patterns of wood production and consumption for bird biodiversity conservation. (C) 2016 elsevier ltd. All rights reserved."
"585" "Impacts of oil palm expansion on avian biodiversity in a neotropical natural savanna" "The consequences of converting tropical rainforest to oil palm are well-documented, but the impacts of oil palm conversion on natural savanna landscapes remain little-known. Natural savannas in south america have been identified as fertile grounds for future oil palm expansion, partly due to perceived low biodiversity impacts relative to forest systems. We quantify the impacts of oil palm conversion for bird communities inhabiting natural savannas in the colombian flaws. Bird species richness and abundance were significantly reduced at sampling points in oil palm relative to adjacent natural savannas, with marked concomitant shifts in community composition. Aquatic, forest and grassland specialists all showed significantly lower abundances in oil palm habitat relative to savanna, as did migratory species and carnivorous/insectivorous dietary guilds. In both habitats, point-level species richness and total bird abundance increased with proximity to remnant forest patches. Within savanna, total bird abundance also decreased with proximity to adjacent oil palm, though species richness was not significantly affected. Within oil palm, point-level abundance increased with proximity to savanna, suggesting that communities in both habitats may be impacted by reciprocal edge or spill-over effects. Point-level abundance in oil palm also increased significantly with the presence of an invasive vine 'kudzu', a species introduced in some plantations as a soil protection measure, although species richness was not affected. Our work underlines the need for careful monitoring of further large-scale agro-industrial conversion in the llanos. In particular, we suggest greater efforts to direct oil palm expansion towards already degraded lands (e.g. Improved grassland areas currently used for intensive cattle grazing) to ensure remaining natural savannas are spared."
"587" "EFFECT OF RECREATIONAL DIVING ON PATAGONIAN ROCKY REEFS" "tourism has grown considerably in the last decades, promoting activities such as recreational scuba diving that may affect marine benthic communities. in puerto madryn, patagonia argentina, sub-aquatic tourism areas (sta) receive about 7,000 divers per year. diving is concentrated on a few small rocky reefs and 50% of the dives occur in summer. in this work, we evaluated the effect of recreational diving activities on benthic communities and determined whether diving causes a press (long-term) or a pulse (short-term) response. we quantified the percentage cover of benthic organisms and compared benthic assemblage structure and composition between two sites with contrasting usage by divers, 'highly disturbed' and 'moderately disturbed' sites, and two 'control' sites with similar physical characteristics but no diving activity, twice before and after the diving peak in summer. we found differences in benthic assemblage structure (identity and relative abundance of taxa) and composition (identity only) among diving sites and controls. these differences were consistent before and after the peak of diving in summer, suggesting that recreational diving may produce a press impact on overall benthic assemblage structure and composition in these sta. at the moderately disturbed site, however, covers of specific taxa, such as some key habitat-forming or highly abundant species, usually differed from those in controls only immediately after summer, after which they begun to resemble controls, suggesting a pulse impact. thus, sta in golfo nuevo seem to respond differently to disturbances of diving depending on the usage of the sites. this information is necessary to develop sound management strategies in order to preserve local biodiversity. (c) 2014 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved."
"588" "The role of fragmentation and landscape changes in the ecological release of common nest predators in the neotropics" "Loss of large mammalian carnivores may allow smaller mesopredators to become abundant and threaten other community members. There is considerable debate about mesopredator release and the role that other potential factors such as landscape variables and human alterations to land cover lead to increased mesopredator abundance. We used camera traps to detect four mesopredators (tayra, eira barbara; white-nosed coati, nasua narica; northern raccoon, procyon lotor; and common opossum, didelphis opossum) in a biological corridor in costa rica to estimate habitat covariates that influenced the species' detection and occurrence. We selected these mesopredators because as semi-arboreal species they might be common nest predators, posing a serious threat to resident and migratory songbirds. Pineapple production had a pronounced positive effect on the detectability of tayras, while forest cover had a negative effect on the detection of coatis. This suggests that abundance might be elevated due to the availability of agricultural food resources and foraging activities are concentrated in forest fragments and pineapple edge habitats. Raccoon and opossum models exhibited little influence on detection from habitat covariates. Occurrence models did not suggest any significant factors influencing site use by nest predators, revealing that all four species are habitat generalists adapted to co-existing in human altered landscapes. Furthermore, fragmentation and land cover changes may predispose nesting birds, herpetofauna, and small mammals to heightened predation risk by mesopredators in the neotropics."
"589" "LARGE MAMMAL SPECIES RICHNESS AND HABITAT USE IN AN UPPER AMAZONIAN FOREST USED FOR ECOTOURISM" "ecotourism has often been presented as the only sustainable source of incomes for the inhabitants of upper amazonia, yet the real socioeconomic benefits of the activity remain controversial and its impact on wildlife, poorly studied. we assessed the diversity of large mammals in a land plot used for ecotourism in the banks of alto madre de dios river (manu biosphere reserve, peru) by conducting 186 km of walk censuses complemented with interviews over a period of 4 months. we found that the species richness and composition were similar to those found in two adjacent pristine sites, but varied within seasons and forest types. the floodplain forest seemed to host a large number of species continuously throughout the year, whereas the terra firme was occupied by a consistently impoverished fauna during the dry season scarcity period. our results confirm the existence of lateral seasonal movements between forest types and subtypes and the preference of many species for riverine habitats. therefore, we advocate that ecotourism reserves along major rivers may act as effective faunal refugees and provide one of the few opportunities for the conservation of floodplain habitats outside strictly protected areas in a mosaic landscape threatened by bouncing populations of colonists. (c) 2010 deutsche gesellschaft fur saugetierkunde. published by elsevier gmbh. all rights reserved."
